
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74978 ***





                            [Illustration:

                               _Vol. IX.
                                of the_

                         Botanists Repository

                              _Comprising
                         Colour’d Engravings_

                                  of

                         _New and Rare Plants_

                                 ONLY

                   With Botanical Descriptions _&c.
                                  in
                           Latin and English
                              after the_

                            Linnæan System.

                                  _by
                              H. Andrews_

                   _Botanical Painter Engraver &c._

                            Mo. Bot. Garden
                                 1904.
                                   ]




PLATE DLIII.

LOBELIA ASSURGENS.

_Assurgent Lobelia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinquefidus, Corolla monopetala, irregularis. Antheræ
     cohærentes. Capsula infera, 2-seu 3-locularis.

     EMPALEMENT five-cleft. Blossom of one petal, irregular. Anthers
     cohering. Seed-vessel below, with 2 or 3 partitions.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LOBELIA foliis lanceolatis serratis, infernè denticulatis
     decurrentibus, racemis compositis terminalibus.

     LOBELIA with leaves lance-shaped, serrate, toothed towards the
     base, and running down the stem; the racemes compound and terminal.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A blossom spread open.
    2. The chives spread open.
    3. The seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

This curious species of Lobelia is a native of high mountains in
Jamaica, where Brown informs us it grows to the height of 5 or 6 feet.
The plant is at present so scarce as not to be enumerated in the
Catalogue of the Cambridge Garden; nor has any figure of it, to our
knowledge, been before published. Specimens were communicated by A. B.
Lambert, esq. from his stove at Boyton, where he informs us that the
plant is now about five feet high, with some of the lower leaves a foot
and a half long; that it began to blossom in the middle of July, and
continued to the end of November; four or five racemes flowering at the
same time, and nodding in the manner of ostrich plumes; the blossoms
gradually opening in succession towards the top, and the racemes
continuing to lengthen until more than a foot long. The flowers have
withered without producing any seed. The plant appears to be perennial.

[Illustration: [Plate 553]]




PLATE DLIV.

VOLKAMERIA ANGUSTIFOLIA.

_Narrow-leaved Volkameria._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinquefidus: Corollæ laciniis secundis. Drupa 2-locularis.
     Semina 4, seu abortu tantum 2.

     EMPALEMENT five-cleft. Blossom with the divisions pointing one way.
     Berry 2-celled. Seeds 4, or from abortion only 2.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     VOLKAMERIA fruticosa glaberrima, foliis oblongo-lanceolatis
     integerrimis, pedunculis trichotomis axillaribus et terminalibus.

     VOLKAMERIA shrubby and very smooth, with oblong-lanced very entire
     leaves, and peduncles divided by threes, both axillary and
     terminal.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open, one tip detached and magnified.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.
    4. The seed-bud magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

Volkameria angustifolia is a dwarf branchy shrub flowering in great
profusion about the middle of August. The blossoms are white and
remarkably sweet-scented. It was communicated by Mr. Donn, Curator of
the Cambridge Botanic garden, and is to be enumerated in the new edition
of his Catalogue now in the press. It requires to be kept in the
bark-bed in the hot-house, and is supposed to be a native of the Isle of
France. We believe no other figure of it has been given.

[Illustration: [Plate 554]]




PLATE DLV.

ZINGIBER CLIFFORDIÆ.

_Cliffordian Zingiber._


CLASS I. ORDER I.

_MONANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ One Chive. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX monophyllus. Corolla 4-5-fida. Antheræ 2. Filamentum simplex
     ultra antheras productum.

     EMPALEMENT of one leaf. Blossom either 4-or 5-cleft. Anthers two.
     Filament simple, extended beyond the anthers.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ZINGIBER scapo simplicissimo, crasso, brevi, capitulo subovato,
     bracteis inferioribus lato-ovatis obtusis; corollâ 4-fidâ, laciniis
     tribus exterioribus oblongis marginibus involutis; alteris
     sub-cordatis duplo majoribus, mox convolutis.

     GINGER with an unbranched, thick, short flower-stalk, the lower
     flower-scales broadly-oval and blunt: the blossom 4-cleft, the
     three outer divisions oblong with their margins turned inwards, the
     inner inversely nearly heart-shaped and doubly larger, soon folding
     together.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. Sheath at the base of the calyx.
    2. A detached flower.
    3. Seed-bud, anthers, and pointal, summit magnified.
    4. The plant in miniature.

       *       *       *       *       *

This fine species of Ginger, we are informed, is a native of Guinea, and
in the gardens has long been supposed to be the plant which produced the
Grains of Paradise, Amomum Granum Paradisi of Linnæus; but it certainly
by no means accords with the character of that plant, either as given in
the Hortus Kewensis or by Linnæus himself. From the other species of
Zingiber enumerated in the eighth volume of the Linnæan Society’s
Transactions it is easily distinguished. Having as yet only blossomed in
England in the collection of Lady de Clifford at Paddington, in honour
of that patroness and lover of botany we have given its specific
designation. The culture is the same as for other plants of the family.
Our drawing was taken in 1804.

[Illustration: [Plate 555]]




PLATE DLVI.

PANCRATIUM AMŒNUM.

_Broad-leaved Pancratium._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

PETALA 6. Nectarium 12-fidum. Stamina nectario imposita.

PETALS 6. Honey-cup 12-cleft. Stamens seated on the nectary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

PANCRATIUM spathâ multiflorâ, fragrantissimâ: foliis longo-lanceolatis,
corollæ laciniis tubum excedentibus: nectario 6-lobato, sinubus
sub-denticulatis. _Willd. Sp._

PANCRATIUM with the sheath many-flowered, and very sweet-scented: the
leaves long-lanced, the divisions of the blossom longer than its tube:
and the nectary 6-lobed, mostly with little teeth between.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower spread open.

       *       *       *       *       *

Several species of the genus Pancratium approach so very near to each
other, that it is a difficult task to discriminate them with accuracy.
We have little doubt that the _Pancratium foliis amplis ovatis_ of Ehret
(Trew’s Plantæ Selectæ, tab. 28.) belongs to our plant, notwithstanding
the absence of the little teeth between the lobes of the nectary.
Indeed, that character appears so variable in the synonyms commonly
given to this species, that we are rather inclined to doubt of its
constancy. Neither are the painters of those days always safely to be
trusted in such minutiæ. Mr. Lambert, who favoured us with the specimen
in March 1808, informs us that he received the bulbs from Lord Seaforth,
on his return to England from the West Indies, from the _Pancratium
caribæum_, cultivated in the same collection. It is certainly distinct;
the blossoms are extremely fragrant, and we are not yet certain whether
the amœnum and fragrans of botanists may not be the same species.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLVII.

PERIPLOCA AFRICANA.

_African Periploca._


CLASS V. ORDER II.

_PENTANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Two Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CONTORTA. Nectarium ambiens genitalia, filamenta 5, exserentia.

     CONTORTED. Honey-cup surrounding the stamens. Threads 5, standing
     out.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PERIPLOCA foliis ovato-acutis, pilosis: floribus corymbosis: caule
     volubili, hirsuto. _Willd. Sp. Pl._

     PERIPLOCA with ovate-pointed hairy leaves: flowers corymbose: stem
     twining and hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The outer part of the blossom.
    3. The tubular part of the same detached.
    4. The same spread open.
    5. One of the lobes of the nectary surrounding
         the parts of fructification.
    6. Seed-buds, chives, and pointals, magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Periploca Africana is at present a rare plant to the gardens,
although, according to Donn’s Catalogue, it has been introduced to this
country as long ago as the year 1726. There are several figures of it
among the older botanists, but not one that does it any justice, as an
ornamental green-house plant, which it undoubtedly is, and continues in
bloom almost from June till January.

Our figure represents the entire plant, just as we received it from
Messrs. Whitley and Brames.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLVIII.

FERULA PERSICA.

_Persian Ferula._


CLASS V. ORDER II.

_PENTANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Two Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     FRUCTUS ovalis, compresso-planus, striis utrinque 3.

     FRUIT oval, flatly compressed, with three stripes on both sides.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     FERULA foliis supra-decompositis: foliolis multifidis,
     decurrentibus: umbellâ primordiali sessili.

     FERULA with leaves more than doubly compound: leaflets many-cleft
     and decurrent: the first umbel of flowers sessile.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A perfect flower.
    2. A male or abortive flower.
    3. The pointals.

       *       *       *       *       *

Assa fœtida grows naturally near Gilan in Persia; and from seeds sent
from thence to the Academy at St. Petersburgh plants were obtained, two
of which were sent to Dr. Hope at Edinburgh, by Dr. Guthrie, to whom
they had been presented by Professor Pallas, in whose herbarium we have
seen specimens of it, but without fructification. One of these plants
flowered and ripened seeds in the Botanic Garden at Edinburgh, and is
described by Dr. Hope in the lxxvth vol. of the Philosophical
Transactions, and a figure annexed, the only one hitherto published of
the species; the Assa fœtida of Kæmpfer being undoubtedly a different
plant. Our specimens were obligingly communicated by Dr. Williams from
the Botanic Garden at Oxford; which, with that of Edinburgh above
mentioned, the Cambridge Garden, the Physic Gardens at Chelsea, and Mr.
Dickson’s private collection at Croydon, are the only gardens in
Britain, as we are informed, that yet possess the plant. The gum exudes
from the roots, which are tuberous and perennial, on the slightest
incision being made; and every part of the plant, even to the
extremities of the leaves, smells strongly of it. It is hardy enough to
bear our climate, and even ripen its seeds in mild seasons. It is not
improbable that at a future time we may be furnished with this valuable
article of the Materia Medica, of English growth. The long list of its
virtues mentioned by Dr. Woodville we need not here enumerate; its
reputation as a cordial for low spirits alone, in these days, entitles
it to notice.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLIX.

CAMELLIA JAPONICA, _semi-duplex_.

_Semidouble-flowered Camellia._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VI.

_MONADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads united. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX imbricatus, polyphyllus: interioribus majoribus.

     EMPALEMENT tiled, many-leaved: the inner ones the largest.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CAMELLIA floribus semi-duplicibus, staminibus divergentibus in
     petalos.

     CAMELLIA with semi-double flowers, the stamens growing into petals.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The stamens growing into petals.
    3. Seed-bud and pointals.
    4. A transverse section of the seed-bud.

       *       *       *       *       *

This Camellia with semi-double flowers was communicated to us by Mr.
Davey, nurseryman and florist in the King’s Road, Chelsea; who informs
us it was a cutting from a plant brought by a gentleman from the coast
of China, and regarded as distinct in its flowers from all those in
cultivation with us. It certainly has a very different appearance; and
as every variety in this short but splendid genus is particularly
admired and sought after, this one, which possesses parts of its botanic
character entire, will doubtless be considered by the amateurs of plants
in general as a variety equally interesting.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLX.

VEREA ACUTIFLORA.

_Pointed-flowered Verea._


CLASS VIII. ORDER IV.

_OCTANDRIA TETRAGYNIA._ Eight Chives. Four Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 4-phyllus. Corolla hypocrateriformis, 4-fida: tubo
     ventricoso, Nectaria 4, ad basin germinum. Capsulæ 4, superæ,
     1-loculares, polyspermæ.

     EMPALEMENT 4-leaved. Blossom funnel-shaped, 4-sided: tube bellied.
     Nectaries 4, at the base of the seed-buds. Capsules 4, above,
     one-celled, many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     VEREA foliis lato-lanceolatis, oppositis, crenatis, crassis:
     floribus paniculatis, terminalibus: corollis albentibus: laciniis
     oris acutissimis.

     VEREA with leaves broadly lance-shaped, opposite, scolloped, and
     thick. Flowers paniculated and terminal. Blossom whitish: segments
     of the border very pointed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-buds and pointals.
    4. The same magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

This new species of Verea flowered (we believe, for the first time in
this country) in the collection of the Hon. C. Greville at Paddington,
whence our drawing was taken. The foliage is compact, and rather
handsome. The flowers are by no means specious; but, as it blossoms in
the depth of winter, its rivals are but few. This considered, with the
addition of its novelty, renders it a valuable acquisition to the
hot-stove.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXI.

XERANTHEMUM FRAGRANS.

_Fragrant Xeranthemum._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united Superfluous.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     RECEPTACULUM paleaceum aut nudum. Pappus setaceus. Calyx
     imbricatus, radiatus: radio colorato.

     RECEPTACLE chaffy, or naked. Feather bristly, Empalement tiled,
     rayed: the ray coloured.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     XERANTHEMUM foliis undulatis, lanatis, apice reflexis: floribus
     parvis, odoratis, terminalibus: radiis calycis exterioribus rubris:
     radio interiore albo.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     XERANTHEMUM with waved woolly leaves reflexed at the point: flowers
     small, sweet-scented and terminal: the outer rays of the empalement
     red, the inner one white.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A scale from the outer ray of the empalement.
    2. A scale from the inner ray.
    3. A flower of the disk.

       *       *       *       *       *

This little Xeranthemum is a native of the Cape, perfectly new, and very
sweet-scented. As fragrance is very unusual in this fine tribe of
plants, we have on that account considered it as a good specific title.
It was introduced to the Clapham gardens about the year 1803; and as we
have not seen it since that period, we are inclined to think it is not
at present in this country. In the herbarium of A. B. Lambert, esq. we
found a fine native specimen of an unnamed species very much resembling
our plant, but with a profusion of flowers--a habit which ours would in
all probability have assumed as soon as it had been familiarized to the
change of climate.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXII.

CYNANCHUM BICOLOR.

_Two-coloured Cynanchum._


CLASS V. ORDER II.

_PENTANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Two Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CONTORTA. Nectarium cylindricum, quinque-dentatum.

     CONTORTED. Honey-cup cylindrical, five-toothed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CYNANCHUM foliis cordatis, acutis, pilosis: floribus in umbellis
     proliferis: corollis bicoloribus: petalis ad basin hirsutis: caule
     volubili.

     CYNANCHUM with heart-shaped, pointed, hairy leaves: flowers grow in
     proliferous umbels: blossoms two-coloured: petals hirsute at the
     base: stem twining.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. The parts of fructification magnified.
    4. The seed-bud, shaft, summit, and chives.
    5. The same magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

This Cynanchum is, we believe, a perfectly new species, and continues to
flower during the summer and autumnal months, running to a great length.
In that, as well as in other particulars, it bears a considerable
resemblance to the Cynanchum extensum of Jacquin’s Icones, but is far
superior to that species from its petals being enlivened with a rich
purple spot, a slight tinge of which is even visible on the smallest
buds. There is an abundant succession of bloom, and the flowers appear
to expand with freedom. Our drawing was made last August from a fine
plant in the hot-stove of the Countess de Vandes.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXIII.

MIMOSA ELEGANS.

_Elegant Mimosa._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER I.

_POLYGAMIA MONŒCIA._ Various Dispositions upon one Plant.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     HERMAPH. Calyx 5-dentatus. Corolla 5-fida. Stamina 5, sive plura.
     Pistillum 1, legumen.

     MASCUL. Calyx 5-dentatus. Corolla 5-fida. Stamina 5-10, sive plura.

     HERMAPH. Empalement 5-toothed. Blossom 5-cleft. Chives 5 or more.
     Pointal 1, a pod.

     MALE. Empalement 5-toothed. Blossom 5-cleft. Chives 5-10, or more.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MIMOSA frutescens, inermis: ramis verrucosis foliis bipinnatis,
     pennis propriis 8-ad 9-jugis, partialibus 20-ad 24-jugis, cum
     impari ad imum minore; spicis axillaribus oblongis divaricatis.

     MIMOSA shrubby, unarmed: with warty branches: leaves doubly winged,
     the first of 8 or 9 pairs, the second of 20 to 24 with a small odd
     leaflet at the bottom: spikes of flowers axillary, oblong, and
     divaricate.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower.
    2. The same spread open.
    3. The same shown from the inner side, one tip magnified.
    4. The seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mimosa elegans is one of the handsomest of the family that yet been
introduced from New Holland, and very rare, being at this time in no
other private collection in this country, but that of A. B. Lambert,
esq. from whom we received our specimens; and in whose conservatory it
is now in full flower, his plant being about ten feet high and very much
branched, with profusion of flowers. It is hardly possible to express
the extreme delicacy of the blossoms. The stamens are united
(monadelphous) towards the base, and are above two hundred in a single
flower. What an apparatus for the impregnation of a single stigma!

From what we have already seen of the beautiful and interesting plants
of this country, cultivators will do well to give them as much both of
pot and branch room as their houses will afford; as well for the health
of the plant as to advantage the size of its fine foliage, of which the
circumscribed scale of our work would only allow us to represent one
half.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXIV.

IXIA CURTA.

_Short Ixia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, patens, æqualis. Stigmata tria erectiuscula,
     patula.

     BLOSSOM six petals, spreading and equal. Summits three, nearly
     upright, and spreading.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     IXIA foliis falcatis: floribus alternis, tri-coloribus: caule
     humili.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     IXIA with scimitar-shaped leaves: flowers alternate, and
     three-coloured. Stem low.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The two sheaths of the empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

This new species of Ixia was delineated from a plant in the collection
of J. Vere, esq. the summer before last, and although low in stature is
certainly high in beauty, and surpassed by very few of loftier growth.
It flowers about the middle of April, and requires the same treatment as
most other Cape species.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXV.

RUTA LINIFOLIA.

_Flax-leaved Ruta._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-partitus. Petala concava. Receptaculum punctis melliferis
     decem cinctum. Capsula lobata.

     EMPALEMENT 5-parted. Petals concave. Receptacle beset with ten
     honey-bearing points. Capsule lobed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     RUTA foliis simplicibus, lanceolatis, glabris: filamentis ciliatis:
     caule simplici, herbaceo.

     Habitat in Hispania.

     Ruta linifolia. _Willd. Sp. Pl._

     RUE with simple leaves, lance-shaped and smooth: threads ciliated.
     Stem simple and herbaceous.

     Native of Spain.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A petal.
    2. Empalement, chives, and pointal.
    3. A chive.
    4. The empalement, seed-bud, and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Ruta linifolia is a new plant to the gardens, and we believe is not
at present in any other collection but that of Cambridge, where it was
raised from seed by Mr. Donn. It is a handsome little herbaceous shrub,
and requires the protection of the green-house to preserve it in this
climate. Flowers in September and October.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXVI.

CALLICOMA SERRATIFOLIA.

_Sawed-leaved Callicoma._


CLASS XI. ORDER II.

_DODECANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Stamens 11 to 19. Styles 2.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     FLORES in capitulis subrotundis, pedunculatis; involucro sub
     4-phyllo. Calyx 4-5-phyllus, foliolis lanceolatis. Corolla O.
     Stamina 11-19, calyce triplo longiora, e receptaculo. Styli 2,
     filiformes: stigmate simplici: germen superum, monoloculare,
     polyspermum.

     FLOWERS in little round heads, upon footstalks; with an involucre
     of about 4 leaves. Calyx of 4 or 5 leaves, the leaflets lanced.
     Blossom none. Stamens from 11 to 19, thrice as long as the calyx,
     growing from the receptacle. Styles 2, thread-shaped. Stigma
     simple. Germen above, 1-celled, and many-seeded.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower.
    2. The same spread open, one tip magnified.
    3. The seed-bud and pointals.
    4. The same magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

Callicoma serratifolia is a native of New South Wales, and has now for
several years in some choice collections adorned the green-house and
conservatory in early spring with its fine heads of flowers; but to whom
we are indebted for its first introduction we are uncertain. Some
botanists have considered it as a congener of Forster’s _Codia_, to
which it has certainly a considerable affinity; but as we cannot exactly
see the propriety of coupling an apetalous flower having so many stamens
with one that is penta-petalous and octandrous, and of which we have no
description of the germen or fruit; and there being great probability
that more plants of this family may be discovered in the vast tracts of
New Holland yet unexplored, we have rather chose to describe it as
distinct, than to excuse ourselves by leaving it to be separated at some
future period and create more changes of names, a circumstance always to
be deprecated and avoided as much as possible by Naturalists. Callicoma
is a middle-sized shrub with the leaves finely cottony and whitish on
the under side, and has considerable beauty even when out of blossom. It
is propagated by layers.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXVII.

CERATONIA SILIQUA.

_Pod-bearing Ceratonia._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER II.

_POLYGAMIA DIŒCIA._ Many Nuptials on separate Plants.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     HERMAPH. Calyx 5-partitus. Corolla 0. Stamina 5-8. Stylus
     filiformis. Stigma capitatum. Legumen coriaceum, pulpâ plenum,
     polyspermum.

     HERMAPH. Empalement 5-parted. Blossom none. Chives 5 to 8. Shaft
     thread-shaped. Summit headed. Pod leathery, full of pulp, and
     many-seeded.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower shown from the outside.
    2. A dry pod a little opened, one seed detached.

       *       *       *       *       *

Instead of a new plant, we here submit to our readers one that according
to the Kew Catalogue has been an inhabitant of our gardens 239 years:
but neither Mr. Alton nor Mr. Miller had ever seen it blossom, nor
during all this long period have we any account of its flowering in this
country. Its male flowers however appeared in the Cambridge Botanic
Garden the beginning of last February, and from a specimen communicated
by Mr. Donn to A. B. Lambert, esq. the present drawing was taken. Mr.
Donn’s plant was between 4 and 5 feet high, moderately branched, and had
the same treatment as his other green-house shrubs. We are uncertain
whether the hermaphrodite or female plant be yet in this country; but as
the propagation is principally from seed, we think it is very probable.
The stamens in our specimen vary in number, being commonly 5, sometimes
6, and more rarely 8. The fruit is added from a dried legume in the
Lambertian collection, which was sent from Spain by the late Abbé
Cavanilles, who in his _Icones Plantarum_, _vol._ 2. _p._ 8. and _tab._
113. (in addition to what was formerly known of the Ceratonia) informs
us, that it grows spontaneously on little hills and dry fields in
Valencia, and is yet more impatient of cold and moisture than the olive,
vast numbers being sometimes killed there by the frost in severe
winters. It is in this province also, that the principal cultivation of
this useful plant in Spain is situated. The propagation is from seeds,
and the diœcious plants are always selected in preference to the
hermaphrodites, being better bearers. Some of the more skilful
cultivators engraft a male bough upon their female plants for their
impregnation, and by this means have no sterile plants in their
collections. They flower twice a year, first in February, and again more
plentifully in August and September; which is also the time of the
fruit’s ripening, and the trees are seen at the same time adorned with
blossoms, and laden with ripe fruit. Eighty pounds of legumes are
sometimes collected from a single tree. They are known to be mature by
their putting on a chesnut colour, and are then beaten from the trees by
canes of the _Arundo Donax_ from 16 to 20 feet long, with part of their
crooked roots left, which serve as hooks. Rain is said to be beneficial
to the ripe fruits, and even to improve them after they are laid in
heaps on the ground. They are finally dried and stored up in barns for
use. The cultivators enumerate three varieties, which they call
_Melars_, _Llandars_, and _Costelluts_. The last they distinguish by
having larger leaves and of a deeper green, with legumes often a foot
long, but with little solidity or sweetness; the second has shorter
legumes, but more solid and very sweet; the leaves also are shorter. The
first are called Melars (_quasi Melleas_) from _Mel_ honey, of which the
fruit contains small drops, and sometimes in such abundance that it
distils upon the ground, and is fed upon by the bees. The fruits are the
principal food of the cattle in the province of Valencia, and also form
part of the sustenance of the poor people. The leaves are used in the
preparation of leather. Monsieur Olivier also informs us in his _Travels
in the Ottoman Empire_, that the Carob-tree grows all over the Island of
Crete, and delights most in stony grounds and the clefts of rocks; that
the fruits are conveyed thence to Constantinople, to Syria and Egypt,
and serve for food to the poor and to children. They are also an
ingredient in the sherbets of which the Mussulmans make daily use.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXVIII.

LIPARIA SPHÆRICA.

_Round-headed Liparia._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinquefidus, lacinia infima elongata. Corollæ alæ inferius
     bilobæ. Filamenta alternatim breviora. Legumen polyspermum.

     CALYX 5-cleft, the lower segment very long. Wings of the blossom
     two-lobed on the lower side. Chives alternately shorter. Pod
     many-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LIPARIA floribus capitatis; foliis lanceolatis, nervosis, glabris.
     _Willd. Sp. Pl. vol._ iii.

     LIPARIA with flowers in heads; the leaves lance-shaped, nerved, and
     smooth.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A bract.
    2. The empalement.
    3. A flower spread open.
    4. The chives.
    5. The same spread open.
    6. Seed-bud and pointal.
    7. A back view of the head of flowers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Africa has long been celebrated as the land of wonders and novelties,
and its vegetable as well as animal productions well entitle it to that
character. The beauty and astonishing variety of ever-varying Geraniums,
delicate Ixias, elegant Ericas, superb Amaryllises, and magnificent
Proteas, received from the Cape of Good Hope alone within these few
years, and many of them totally unknown before, have given to our
gardens that splendour and perpetual novelty which justly make them the
admiration of the world. What still more enhances the pleasure is, that
the mine is yet unexhausted, as our present charming subject, not before
enumerated in any of our catalogues of cultivated plants will testify.
Mr. Milne, gardener at Fonthill, well known for his zeal and skill in
the cultivation of rare plants, obligingly communicated the specimens.
Having forwarded the first a little too early, being struck with the
singular beauty, and not knowing the habits of the plant, a fortnight
after he forwarded a third specimen fully expanded, from which the
figure is taken. Mr. Milne informs us, that he raised the Liparia from
Cape seeds some years ago, and has kept it in the conservatory, where it
is now in blossom. The plant is branchy, and between four and five feet
in height. He thinks he possesses two more new species of the genus
raised at the same time, which have not yet blossomed with him.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXIX.

CEANOTHUS LANIGER.

_Woolly Ceanothus._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     PETALA 5, saccata. Bacca sicca, 3-locularis, 3-sperma.

     PETALS 5, bagged. Berry dry, three-celled, three-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CEANOTHUS foliis oblongo-lanceolatis, integerrimis, subtus
     lanuginosis; ramulis, pedunculis, petiolis, calycibusque hirsutis.

     CEANOTHUS with the leaves oblong-lanced, entire, and woolly
     beneath; the branches, footstalks, flowerstalks, and calyxes hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower.
    2. A segment of the calyx, with a petal and stamen attached.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

To New Holland we export criminals for our convenience and safety, and
from thence import furs for our covering and flowers for our amusement.
So far the balance of trade is in our favour. But by whose hands, or at
what time, our present subject was first brought over, we have not been
able to learn. The specimen was communicated by A. B. Lambert, esq. in
the beginning of April from his collection at Boyton, and we have also
seen the plant very finely in flower at Mr. Whitley’s nursery, Brompton.
Its woolly leaves and branches, contrasted with the Mimosas and other
hard-leaved plants from the same country, make an agreeable variety, and
the early blossoms are very ornamental. The plants we have seen are
moderate-sized branchy shrubs, are kept in the green-house like other
New Holland plants, and require no particular treatment. We have seen
more species from the same country in herbariums, and some are now alive
in this country, although they have not yet blossomed.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXX.

JUSTICIA NITIDA.

_Shining-leaved Justicia._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX simplex seu duplex. Corolla 1-petala, irregularis. Capsula
     ungue elastico dissiliens: dissepimentum contrarium; adnatum.

     EMPALEMENT simple or double. Blossom one-petalled, irregular.
     Capsule splitting with an elastic claw: partition contrary to the
     valve; affixed.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER

     JUSTICIA fruticosa: foliis ellipticis, acuminatis: racemis
     spicæformibus, verticillatis: bracteis minutis: pedicellis
     calycibusque glabris.

     _Swartz._ _Flora Indiæ occidentalis._

     Habitat in insulis Jamaicæ, S. Christophori, Martiniquæ, S. Crucis,
     et Guadalupæ.

     JUSTICIA with a shrubby stem: leaves elliptic and pointed: raceme
     in the form of a spike, whorled: floral leaves small: footstalks
     and calyx smooth.

     Native of Jamaica, St. Christopher, Martinique, St. Croix, and
     Guadaloupe.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower spread open.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal,
    3. The capsule.
    4. The same split open.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of this species of Justicia the only figure extant that we know of is a
very indifferent representation of it in Sloane’s Jamaica, evidently
from a dried specimen. The fine glossy character of the foliage has
furnished it with a specific title. The flowers are abundant in
succession, but, like most of this genus, of a deciduous or short-lived
character. It was introduced to the British gardens, according to Donn’s
Catalogue, in 1793, Our drawing was made from a plant brought from the
West Indies by Lord Seaforth, which flowered in August 1808 in the
hot-stove of A. B. Lambert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXI.

SIDA PATENS.

_Spreading Sida._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VIII.

_MONADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads united. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX simplex. Stylus multipartitus. Capsulæ plures, mono-seu
     tri-spermæ.

     CALYX simple. Pointal many-parted. Seed-vessels many, one-or
     three-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     SIDA foliis cordatis, dentatis, longè acuminatis, leviter
     pubescentibus; pedunculis solitariis petiolis longioribus; corollis
     patentibus; stylis quinquepartitis; capsulis quinque, birostratis.

     SIDA with heart-shaped, toothed, long-pointed, and slightly woolly
     leaves; solitary flower-stalks longer than the footstalks;
     spreading corollas, five-parted styles, and five two-beaked
     capsules.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The chives spread open, one tip magnified.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another African novelty introduced by Viscount Valentia in 1806 from
Abyssinia; and from specimens obligingly communicated by him from his
gardens at Arly the drawing is taken. From the seeds already introduced
by his Lordship from that yet unexplored, and hitherto almost
inaccessible country, and from the connexions he is now endeavouring to
establish there, Mr. Salt, who travelled in his Lordship’s suite, being
now dispatched on an embassy to the King of that country at Gondar, we
may soon hope to have a few more specimens of its vegetable productions;
at present as imperfectly known as the sources of the Nile, which have
eluded the researches of philosophers above two thousand years.

Sida patens, in the natural arrangement of the genus, should be placed
next to _Sida reflexa_ of Cavanilles and Willdenow.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXII.

PROTEA SALIGNA.

_Willow-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis obliquis, lanceolatis, pubescentibus: capitulis
     oblongis, involucratis, terminalibus.

     Feminei flores ramos terminant cum cono ovato magnitudine pisi,
     involucro bicolori circumdato.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     PROTEA with oblique, lance-shaped, hairy leaves: heads of flowers
     oblong, involucrated, and terminal.

     Female flowers terminate the branches with an ovate cone about the
     size of a pea, surrounded by a two-coloured involucrum.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower, one tip magnified.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.
    3. Section of a head of flowers from the female plant.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal, magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

Protea saligna, in the Species Plantarum of Linnæus, is considered as
only a variety of P. conifera, but is certainly specifically distinct in
its foliage, however resembling in other particulars. Finding, soon
after we had made our drawing, a female plant in fine bloom, we have
annexed a branch of it on the same plate, to elucidate as much as
possible the apparent confusion that at present seems to pervade this
section of the Genus Protea. The P. saligna of Thunberg, enumerated by
Willdenow, we have no doubt, describes the female specimen we have
represented, the cone being there mentioned as about the size of a pea,
and which exactly accords with our figure. The drawings were made from
plants introduced to this country from the Cape of Good Hope, in the
year 1806, by G. Hibbert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXIII.

MAGNOLIA AURICULATA.

_Ear-leaved Magnolia._


CLASS XIII. ORDER VII.

_POLYANDRIA POLYGYNIA._ Many Chives. Many Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 3-phyllus. Petala 6-12. Capsulæ 2-valves, imbricatæ. Semina
     baccata, pendula.

     CUP 3-leaved. Petals 6-12. Capsules 2-valved, tiled. Seeds berried,
     pendulous.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MAGNOLIA foliis obovato-lanceolatis, basi attenuatis, auritis,
     glabris, subtus glaucis.

     Habitat in America boreali.

     MAGNOLIA with obovate lance-shaped leaves, attenuated towards the
     base, eared, smooth, and glaucous beneath.

     Native of North America.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A chive.
    2. Seed-bud and pointals.

       *       *       *       *       *

Amongst the finest hardy exotics that ornament the gardens, the
Magnolias are eminently conspicuous. A fine species of that description
our figure represents, drawn from a plant seven feet high in the
nursery-ground of Messrs. Whitley and Brames, who inform me that it was
sent to them from Maryland in North America, by Mr. Bartram, about the
year 1793. It does not seed with us, as very few of the genus do; and
when any of them appear to have ripened their seed perfectly, we
understand they have very rarely if ever vegetated. This species is
perfectly hardy, but is with difficulty raised by layers; which accounts
for its being (after a period of sixteen years since its first
introduction to this country) not so generally known as it deserves to
be. It flowers in the month of May.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXIV.

PULTENÆA OBCORDATA.

_Inversely Heart-leaved Pultenæa._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinque-dentatus, utrinque appendiculatus. Corolla
     papilionacea, alis vexillo brevioribus. Legumen uniloculare,
     dispermum.

     CUP five-toothed, with an appendage on each side. Blossom
     butterfly-shaped, with the wings shorter than the standard. Pod of
     one cell, with two seeds.

     See Pultenæa Daphnoides, Pl. XCVIII. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PULTENÆA foliis obcordatis, mucronatis, nitidis.

     PULTENÆA with inversely heart-shaped leaves, mucronated, and
     shining.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The vexillum.
    3. One of the wings.
    4. The two petals of the keel.
    5. The chives and pointal, one tip magnified.
    6. Seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

This nondescript species of Pultenæa is a native of New Holland, and was
discovered on Van Diemen’s Land by Mr. Littlejohn, one of the residents
on Governor Collins’s settlement. It possesses lively yellow flowers,
and singularly obcordate leaves, and is a handsome addition to the genus
Pultenæa, of which it is a genuine member, having the two little
appendages on the cup, the principal (although trivial) leading feature
that characterizes the genus. Our drawing was made from a specimen
communicated by A. B. Lambert, esq. with whom it has flowered for the
first time in this country.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXV.

MARTYNIA DIANDRA.

_Diandrous Martynia._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-fidus. Corolla ringens. Capsula lignosa, corticata, rostro
     hamata, 4-locularis, 4-valvis.

     CALYX five-cleft. Corolla gaping. Capsule woody, covered, with a
     hooked beak; 4 divisions, and 4 openings.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MARTYNIA caule ramoso, foliis oppositis, cordatis, dentatis,
     floribus diandris. _Willd. Sp. Pl._

     MARTYNIA with the stem branching, leaves opposite, heart-shaped,
     and toothed, and flowers diandrous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The chives.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.
    4. The capsule.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are glad to have an opportunity of giving a figure of a plant so very
ornamental, and so rarely met with in our collections. Martynia diandra
is a native of Mexico about Vera Cruz, and requires to be kept in the
hothouse, or glass frame with artificial heat, and has much the same
delicate texture as the Martynia proboscidea. Of the figures that have
before been published of it, that of Jacquin in his Hortus
Schœnbrunnensis, vol. iii. plate 289, is by far the best. A specimen was
communicated by A. B. Lambert, esq., in November 1808, and another in
May last from a plant which had outlived the winter, and from which the
present figure is taken. All the species of Martynia are considered as
annuals.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXVI.

LITHOSPERMUM TINCTORIUM.

_Dyers’ Bugloss._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA infundibuliformis, fauce perforata, nuda. Calyx 5-partitus.

     BLOSSOM funnel-shaped, with the mouth open and naked. Cup 5-cleft.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LITHOSPERMUM villosum caulibus procumbentibus. _Sp. Pl. editio
     prima._

     LITHOSPERMUM hairy. Stem procumbent.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

This rare plant, enumerated in the Hortus Kewensis upon the authority of
Sutherland’s Catalogue of the Plants in the Physic Garden at Edinburgh,
published in 1683, has been long a desideratum in our collections. It
grows naturally in dry sandy places about Montpelier, and also in the
southern provinces of the Russian empire, from whence we have seen fine
specimens collected by Professor Pallas in Mr. Lambert’s Herbarium,
which now contains the whole collection made at the expense of the
Russian Government, during the space of 30 years, by that great
naturalist and his assistants. The plant is well calculated for
ornamenting rock-works, or light sandy and gravelly borders. The roots
are an article of trade, and used to give a red colour to oils, wax, and
spirits of wine. Linnæus, after having very properly arranged this plant
as a Lithospermum in the first edition of his Species Plantarum,
afterwards removed it to the genus Anchusa, which alteration has since
been adopted by every editor of his works. The character, however, is
decidedly that of a Lithospermum; and the alteration would be difficult
to account for, were it not for a memorandum of the late M. L’Heritier
(published in the Flore Française), stating that he had seen another
plant under that name in the Linnæan herbarium. It therefore appears
that Linnæus, after having described the true plant, from his not
possessing a specimen of it had afterwards mistaken some species of
Anchusa for it. The plant, however, was retained in its proper genus by
Gerard in his Flora Gallico-Provincialis, and he has since been followed
by Decandolle in the Flore Française. We are aware of Professor Vahl and
Willdenow’s having given to another Lithospermum the name of tinctorium;
but if the genus Arnebia of Forskahl is given up, the characteristic
specific of tetrastigma applied to it by Lamarck may be restored. We
have never seen any figure of the plant but that of Plenck, Aubriet’s in
Alyon’s Cours de Botanique, and the wooden cut of John Bauhin; the plant
figured under the name of Anchusa tinctoria in Woodville’s Medical
Botany being the Anchusa officinalis. Specimens were communicated by A.
B. Lambert, esq., and there is also a fine spreading plant of it now in
blossom (May 27th) in the natural ground, in Mr. Harrison’s nursery at
Brompton.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXVII.

PROTEA VIRGATA.

_Twiggy Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis linearibus acutis, supra concavis, subtus convexis:
     floribus confertis, procumbentibus.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     PROTEA with linear pointed leaves, concave above, and convex
     beneath. Flowers crowded, and lying on the ground.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower complete, summit magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

The application of specific titles to this wide-spreading family of
plants is now become an arduous task; and considering how many of the
best are already occupied, an exclusive reference cannot be expected.
This species of Protea is altogether new, but bears a powerful
resemblance in the flowers to the P. humiflora: but the distinct
character of its foliage gives to the tout ensemble a perfect air of
novelty; nor is there any figure or description of it extant, that we
know of.

Our drawing was made from a fine plant at the nursery of Mr. Knight in
the King’s Road, Chelsea.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXVIII.

ÆGIPHILA DIFFUSA. Fig. 1.

_Spreading Ægiphila._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 4-dentatus. Corolla 4-fida. Stylus semibifidus. Bacca
     bilocularis, loculis dispermis.

     CUP four-toothed. Blossom four-cleft. Shaft cleft half-way down.
     Berry two-celled, cells two-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ÆGIPHILA foliis ovato-lanceolatis, longè acuminatis, utrinque
     glabris; paniculis diffusis axillaribus et terminalibus; staminibus
     tubo vix excedentibus, stylo longissimo.

     ÆGIPHILA with oval-lanced, long pointed leaves, smooth on both
     sides; panicles spreading, axillary, and terminal; stamens scarcely
     longer than the tube, and shaft very long.




ÆGIPHILA OBOVATA. Fig. 2.

_Inversely Oval-leaved Ægiphila_


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     ÆGIPHILA foliis obovatis acuminatis, utrinque glabris; paniculis
     axillaribus et terminalibus; pedicellis calycibusque minutè
     pubescentibus.

     ÆGIPHILA with leaves inversely oval, pointed and smooth; panicles
     axillary and terminal; flower-stalks and calyxes minutely
     pubescent.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal, as it appears in the opening buds.
    4. The same when fully expanded.

       *       *       *       *       *

This very natural genus was established by Jacquin from the Bois Cabril
of the Creoles in Martinico, a shrub, the young shoots of which are
greedily sought for and eaten by their cattle, particularly goats,
whence the name (in English) Goatwood; and which Jacquin, following the
botanical canon, elegantly turned into Ægiphila. With this species the
celebrated Swartz has conjoined the Knoxia of Browne’s Jamaica and
Manabea lævis of Aublet’s Guiana, and added two more species, Æ. fœtida
and Æ. trifida, discovered by himself; and Willdenow has yet further
augmented it with the Manabea villosa and arborescens of Aublet, and the
Nuxia of Lamarck: the last, however, we consider as a very doubtful
species. That fine collection of plants from the West Indies, introduced
in 1807 by lord Seaforth, and by him presented to A. B. Lambert, esq.
and which we have already so often quoted, has brought to our knowledge
two more species, which we have denominated diffusa and obovata, from
what appeared to us to be their most prominent features. Both shrubs are
natives of the West Indies, and were sent to us in flower in August
1808. They are propagated by cuttings, and have not yet ripened seeds in
England, but produce flowers annually in abundance during the months of
July and August.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXIX.

CRATÆGUS AZAROLUS.

_The Azarole._


CLASS II. ORDER XII.

_ICOSANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. Two Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quinquefidus. Petala quinque. Bacca infera, 1-5-sperma.

     CUP five-cleft. Blossom five petals. Berry below, with from 1 to 5
     seeds.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CRATÆGUS foliis obtusis, subtrifidis, dentatis, pubescentibus.

     CRATÆGUS with blunt, pubescent, toothed leaves generally 3-cleft.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower spread open.
    2. The same shown from the outer side.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Azarole grows naturally in Italy, in the South of France, in
Carniola, and on the banks of the Tanais in the Russian empire where it
was found by Gerber in 1741. It grows to be a tree of rather small size,
and is much cultivated in Italy, in the South of France, and in Sicily,
for the sake of the fruit, which is as large as a cherry, of a fine red
colour with sometimes a tinge of yellow, and is said to have a very
agreeable flavour. At present the Azarole is very scarce in this
country, and we have never seen it in blossom but at Burchall’s nursery
at Fulham, in May 1808, when our drawing was made. This year the plant
has produced no blossoms. To those who are desirous of cultivating the
Azarole, and adding another variety to their deserts, we would recommend
planting it in well sheltered situations; or perhaps training against a
wall, as practised for peaches and other delicate fruits, would be still
better. Considerable trees of the Azarole formerly existed in His
Majesty’s Gardens at Kew, and in those of the Duke or Northumberland at
Sion House; and we have lately seen the remains of one in Mr. Swainson’s
collection at Twickenham; but we are not aware that any exist at present
in England. That of Plenck excepted, in His Medical Plants, Pl. 390, we
believe no other coloured figure of it has before been published.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXX.

MESEMBRYANTHEMUM ACINACIFORME.

_Scimitar-leaved Mesembryanthemum._


CLASS XII. ORDER IV.

_ICOSANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. Five Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     PETALA valde numerosa, linearia, basi cohærentia.

     PETALS very numerous, linear, cohering at the base.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MESEMBRYANTHEMUM foliis acinaciformibus: floribus amplissimis, lætè
     purpureis.

     _Dillenii Hortus Elthamensis_, tab. CCXI.

     FIG-MARYGOLD with scimitar-shaped leaves: flowers very large, and
     of a bright purple colour.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement, seed-bud, and pointals.

       *       *       *       *       *

Throughout this extensive tribe of plants, this is the most splendid
species of Mesembryanthemum we are at present acquainted with; and
although an old plant in the gardens, it is quite a rarity to meet with
it in flower. Our specimen is from the collection of Mr. Trimmer, of Kew
Bridge, whose method of forcing it into bloom may be worth the attention
of cultivators. It is by training it up against the glass, and watering
it very sparingly; indeed, so little water is requisite for many of the
succulent plants, that we have seen them thrive very well without any,
except what they absorb from the humidity of the atmosphere in the
descending dews.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXXI.

SALIX VIOLACEA.

_Violet-coloured Willow._


CLASS XXII. ORDER II.

_DIŒCIA DIANDRIA._ Chives and Pointals on different Plants. Two Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     * _Masculi flores._

     AMENTUM cylindraceum. Calyx squamosus. Corolla 0. Glandulæ baseos
     nectariferæ.

     * _Feminei flores._

     AMENTUM cylindraceum. Calyx squamosus. Corolla 0. Stylus 2-fidus.
     Capsula 1-locularis, 2-valvis. Semina papposa.

     * _Male flowers._

     CATKIN cylindrical. Empalement squamous. Blossom none. Glands at
     the base, bearing honey.

     * _Female Flowers._

     CATKIN cylindrical. Empalement squamous. Blossom none. Shaft
     2-cleft. Capsule 1-locular, 2-valved. Seeds downy.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     SALIX foliis lanceolatis, acuminatis, serrulatis, glabris, subtus
     glaucis: ramis pulvere violaceo tectis.

     WILLOW with lance-shaped leaves finely sawed, smooth, and glaucous
     beneath: branches covered over with a violet-coloured powder.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A male flower.
    2. A bit of the lower part of the stem with
          some of the powder rubbed off.

       *       *       *       *       *

This fine species of willow is remarkable, first, for the gigantic size
of its shoots, rising to the height of ten and sometimes twelve feet in
one season; secondly, for their superior tenacity, being yet more tough
than the common Osier; and thirdly, for the singular blue powder
(considerably resembling that found upon the Orleans plum) with which
they are always covered; and which, when any part of it has been
accidentally rubbed off, is very quickly regenerated. It is said to be a
native of Russia or Siberia, and to have been introduced by Mr. John
Bell of Sion Gate about the year 1798. Whether it may or may not be the
same species as Salix acutifolia of Willdenow, which he published
without having seen the fructification, we leave to those who have seen
his specimen to determine.

Our specimens are from the collection of A. B. Lambert, esq. who informs
us that it produces in April male flowers annually at Boyton, and
besides its great utility is a very ornamental plant.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXXII.

PROTEA MELLIFERA ALBIFLORA.

_White-flowered Honey-bearing Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, petalis infra
     apices insertæ. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

     BLOSSOM four-cleft, or of four petals. Tips linear, inserted into
     the petals below the points. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PROTEA foliis lanceolatis ellipticis: capituloque terminali, magno,
     albo.

     Habitat ad Caput Bonæ Spei.

     PROTEA with elliptic lance-shaped leaves: head of flowers terminal,
     large, and white.

     Native of the Cape of Good Hope.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. Seed-bud, chives, and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whether we consider this Protea as a species, or only a variety, it well
deserves a representation. The only plant we have ever seen of it, and
from whence our figure was taken, was in the collection of the Duke of
Northumberland at Sion House, in the year 1807. Its unequivocal claim to
the specific title of mellifera we unawares experienced, as, in bending
the plant a little forward to view the interior of its flowers, (the
plant being near seven feet high,) it literally poured out a stream of
nectareous juice, the cup being filled with honey as high as the
imbrications could possibly contain it.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXXIII.

LONICERA JAPONICA.

_Japanese Woodbine._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 1-petala, irregularis. Bacca polysperma, bilocularis,
     infera.

     BLOSSOM of one petal, irregular. Berry many-seeded, 2-celled,
     below.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LONICERA foliis perennantibus petiolatis villosis: caule volubili.

     Lonicera japonica. _Willd. Sp. Pl._

     LONICERA with ever-green downy leaves upon footstalks, and a
     twining stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower spread open.
    2. The seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

This far-fetched and yet rare species of “the luscious woodbine” is the
Kin-gin-qua, or Gold and Silver Flower, of the Japanese, as we learn
from Kæmpfer and Thunberg. The same name is also affixed to a Chinese
drawing of the plant, a copy of which we have seen in the collection of
A. B. Lambert, esq. From the same drawing we learn that the flowers come
sometimes more in heads, and much more numerous than in our specimen;
which may probably be accounted for from the plants being kept here in
the green-house. Being an ever-green, like the Minorca and American
twining honey-suckles, the species is the more desirable. It was
introduced, we are informed, from China about the year 1805, and our
drawing was taken in July 1809, in the garden of the Count de Vandes at
Bayswater.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXXIV.

PHLOMIS SAMIA.

_Samian Phlomis._


CLASS XIV. ORDER I.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX angulatus. Corollæ labium superius incumbens, compressum,
     villosum.

     CUP angled: upper lip of the corolla incumbent, compressed and
     downy.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PHLOMIS caule hirsuto, foliis cordatis, crenatis, subtus
     tomentosis, bracteis tripartitis subulatis mucronatis calycem
     æquantibus. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 3. p. 120._

     PHLOMIS with a hairy stalk: leaves heart-shaped, scolloped, and
     cottony underneath: bracts 3-parted, awl-shaped, as long as the
     cup.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A flower spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

This curious species appears to have been introduced by Mr. Miller; but,
not being enumerated in the Hortus Kewensis, nor the Catalogue of the
Cambridge Botanic Garden, must have been since lost. Indeed Mr. Miller
informs us, that the severe winter of 1740 destroyed all the plants of
it then in England. A. B. Lambert, esq. who communicated the specimens
in July last from his garden at Boyton, informs us that Dr. Williams,
regius professor of botany at Oxford, favoured him with the plant; and
his predecessor Dr. Sibthorpe, who made two journeys into Greece to
enrich us with the natural history of that interesting country, was
probably the re-introducer. The name Samia is derived from the island of
Samos; but Monsieur Desfontaines informs us (in his Flora Atlantica)
that the original Samian plant of Tournefort and the Phlomis Samia of
Linnæus (which he found wild about Mount Atlas) are different species.
Both may possibly be natives of Samos: the posthumous Flora Græca of Dr.
Sibthorpe, now publishing by his friend Dr. Smith, will, we trust,
decide it. There is no prior figure of the plant.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXXV.

SOPHORA JAPONICA.

_Japanese Sophora._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-dentatus, supernè gibbus. Corolla papilionacea: alis
     longitudine vexilli. Lomentum moniliforme.

     CUP five-toothed, swelling above. Blossom butterfly-shaped, with
     wings the length of the keel. Pod necklace-shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     SOPHORA foliis pinnatis: foliolis pluribus ovatis glabris: caule
     arboreo. _Willd. Sp. Pl._

     SOPHORA with winged leaves: the leaflets numerous, ovate, and
     smooth: stem arborescent.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The vexillum.
    3. One of the alæ.
    4. The carina.
    5. The chives.
    6. The seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sophora japonica is the largest species of that genus at present known.
The specimen exhibited is from a tree more than 40 feet high, in the
collection of John Ord, esq. at Purser’s Cross, Fulham, which was
planted by himself about fifty years ago. Our attachment to even the
inanimate companions of our youth, and the pleasure we derive from them,
are thus beautifully expressed by one of our English poets (Cowley, we
believe):

    “A wood coëval with himself he sees;
     And loves his old cotemporary trees.”

Mr. Ord obtained his plants of Mr. Gordon, nurseryman at Mile End, who
introduced the species from China in the year 1753. The first time of
its flowering in this country, we learn, was in his Grace the Duke of
Northumberland’s collection at Sion, in August 1797. The only figure we
have seen is in Jacquin’s Hortus Schœnbrunnensis, vol. iii. Burmann, in
his Flora Indica, and after him Linnæus, describe the flowers as white.
In Mr. Ord’s garden they are of a faint yellow, as in the figure of
Jacquin; and in the specimens which we have seen from Sion House, faint
yellow tinged with purple. Excellent in the study of flowers is the
maxim of Virgil,

    “.... Nimiùm ne crede colori.”

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXXVI.

LILIUM SPECIOSUM.

_Showy Lily._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 6-petala, campanulata: nectarium linea longitudinalis:
     capsulæ valvulis pilo cancellato connexis.

     BLOSSOM 6-leaved, bell-shaped. Nectary a longitudinal line. Valves
     of the seed-pod connected with a lattice-work of hairs.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LILIUM foliis sparsis, ovato-oblongis: floribus cernuis mox
     revolutis: caule ramoso.

     Lilium speciosum. _Willd. Sp. Pl._

     LILY with scattered oval-oblong leaves: the flowers nodding, soon
     rolled back, and the stem branching.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. Seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

We can but seldom have the pleasure of recording so valuable an
acquisition to our collections as this truly magnificent species,
introduced from China by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks about the year
1807, and a figure of it also published by him in 1791, being plate 47
of the Icones Selectæ, from drawings made in Japan by Kæmpfer, and now
deposited in the British Museum. The woolliness and bulbs on the stem in
our specimen, and the want of constriction at the base of the leaves,
(if any such ever exists in nature,) differ considerably from the figure
above quoted; but the strong general resemblance, and a consideration of
the many variations to which other species of this genus are subject,
induce us to regard it as a variety from the same common stock. The stem
rises to between three and four feet in height, and sometimes even
higher; and produces from three to nine or more flowers, according to
its strength and situation. The bulb which it produces from the base of
every leaf forms a future plant, and thus to unrivalled beauty adds
abundance. Its time of flowering enhances its value, being in August,
when all other lilies have deserted the parterre. Mr. Williams,
nurseryman at Turnham Green, favoured us with the specimen.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXXVII.

CORCHORUS? JAPONICUS _flore pleno_.

_Japanese Corchorus with double flowers._


CLASS XIII. ORDER I.

_POLYANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Many Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA 5-petala. Calyx 5-phyllus, deciduus. Capsula plurivalvis,
     loculamentosa.

     BLOSSOM of 5 petals. Cup 5-leaved, falling off, Fruit with many
     valves, subdivided.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CORCHORUS capsulis rotundis glabris, foliis
     duplicato-serratis.--_Flora Japonica, p. 227._

     CORCHORUS with round smooth capsules, and the leaves doubly sawed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The pointals.

       *       *       *       *       *

This elegant shrub is amply described in the Flora Japonica of Professor
Thunberg, who found it growing naturally about Nagasaki, Miaco, and
various parts of the Japanese empire; where it is also commonly
cultivated for ornament. The double variety here figured he particularly
specifies as naturally adorning the country about Miaco. In Houttuyn’s
Pflanrensystem, vol. vii. plate 54, there is also an engraving of it.
The single-flowered has not yet been introduced to this country. The
time of blossoming is in early spring: but it does not appear to confine
itself to that season, as we have been favoured with fresh specimens at
various seasons from April to October; and we may therefore safely
predict its being long a favourite with cultivators. The flexile twigs
starred with blossoms look at a little distance like garlands, and
extend when supported to a great length. All the flowers that we have
seen are from 5-to 8-gynous; which, with the singular form of the
capsule, makes us consider it as a very doubtful species of Corchorus.
The Japanese name is Jamma Buki.

Our figure is taken from specimens communicated by Mr. Milne of
Fonthill, who informs us that his plant now growing in the conservatory
is ten feet high. We first observed it in bloom early last spring at
Messrs. Colville’s, and in several other collections during the summer,
but smaller both in flowers and leaves.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXXVIII.

SIDA HASTATA.

_Halberd-leaved Sida._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VIII.

_MONADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ One Brotherhood. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX simplex, angulatus. Stylus multi-partitus. Capsulæ plures,
     1-seu 3-spermæ.

     CUP simple-angled. Shafts many-parted. Seedpods many, one-to
     three-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     SIDA foliis inferioribus cordatis angulatis, superioribus
     elongato-hastatis; pedunculis axillaribus, unifloris, longissimis.

     Sida hastata, _Willd. Sp. Pl._

     SIDA with the lower leaves somewhat heart-shaped and angled, the
     upper ones long-halberd-shaped; flower-stalks very long,
     one-flowered, and axillary.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The chives spread open.
    2. The pointals.

       *       *       *       *       *

This species was first properly distinguished and described by the
Spanish botanist Cavanilles in his Dissertatio de Sida, where he has
also given a figure of it; and upon this with the Sida cristata and
Dilleniana his genus Anoda was founded. Other botanists, however, have
not agreed to this division, and both Professor Martyn in his Dictionary
and Willdenow still consider them as Sidas of which they now enumerate
99 species; and the new species brought from Abyssinia by Lord Valentia,
and published in our 117th number, completes the century. Most of the
species have been destined by nature to blossom beneath a milder sky
than ours; the Sida hastata was found by the French botanist Dombey
growing naturally in Peru and Lima in moist places; and A. B. Lambert,
esq., who favoured us with the specimen last September, received the
seeds from the East Indies, The two other varieties of this enumerated
by Cavanilles and Willdenow we have not seen. The plant is annual, and
has yet been kept in the stove.

[Illustration]




PLATE DLXXXIX.

GLADIOLUS ANGUSTUS, _minor_.

_Small Narrow-leaved Cornflag._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     COROLLA sexpartita, ringens. Stamina adscendentia.

     BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping. Chives ascending.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     GLADIOLUS foliis linearibus, longis, costatis; corollis
     flavescentibus; petalis tribus inferioribus rubro notatis.

     Gladiolus angustus. _Jacquin. Icones, tab. 252, vol. ii._

     CORNFLAG with linear leaves long and ribbed: blossom yellowish; the
     three lower petals marked with red.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The outer sheath of the empalement.
    2. The inner sheath.
    3. A blossom spread open.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal.
    5. Flower of a larger variety.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our figure represents a plant from the nursery of Mr. Williams, and
which we at first were inclined to regard as a distinct species from the
Gladiolus angustus of Jacquin: but meeting soon after with a plant in
the collection of Messrs. Whitley and Brames, of larger dimensions, (a
flower of which we have represented,) its intermediate character
appears, upon comparison, to connect a regular chain of variation, the
smallest link of which is (at present) the one now figured.

Both plants are of easy culture, requiring no other treatment than what
is common to bulbs of this class.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXC.

MESPILUS ODORATISSIMA.

_Sweet-scented Mespilus._


CLASS XII. ORDER V.

_ICOSANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. Five Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-fidus. Petala 5. Bacca infera, 5-sperma.

     CALYX 5-cleft. Petals 5. Berry below, 5-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MESPILUS foliis utrinque pubescentibus, pinnatifidis; laciniis
     incisis.

     MESPILUS with leaves downy on both sides, and wing-cleft; with the
     segments slit.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement and pointals.
    2. A branch of ripe fruit.

       *       *       *       *       *

For this undescribed species of Mespilus we are indebted to the Right
Hon. the Marquis of Bath, who first observed it to be distinct from the
Mespilus tanacetifolia, with which it has commonly been confounded, and
pointed out the specific differences to Mr. Lambert in 1807. The
accuracy of his Lordship’s observations we have often verified this
summer in the different collections about London, and find the two
species quite distinct in fruit, foliage, and bracteæ. Mespilus
odoratissima forms handsome dwarf trees, from 6 to 12 feet high in the
specimens we have seen. The blossoms appear in June, and are remarkably
fragrant, but considerably smaller than in M. tanacetifolia; but this is
abundantly compensated by the livelier colour and greater profusion of
the fruit with which the boughs are loaded in autumn. The tree called by
Professor Pallas Cratægus orientalis, (see the English translation of
his Travels in the Crimea, vol. ii. p. 174 and 181,) and which he found
cultivated for its fruit in the south-western parts of the Crimea, where
it also grows wild on the mountains, is this species, as we have
ascertained from his Herbarium; and the little red Medlar found in
Anatolia by Tournefort, (see his Travels, vol. ii. p. 322 of the English
translation,) noticed by Dr. Smith in his Exotic Botany, is probably the
same thing. We were favoured with the specimens both of this and M.
tanacetifolia (our next plate) by the Right Hon. the Marchioness of
Bath, from Longleat.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXCI.

MESPILUS TANACETIFOLIA.

_Tansy-leaved Medlar._


CLASS XII. ORDER V.

_ICOSANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. Five Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-fidus. Petala 5. Bacca infera, 5-sperma.

     CALYX 5-cleft. Petals 5. Berry below, 5-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MESPILUS floribus bracteatis; foliis pinnatifidis; laciniis argutè
     serratis, pubescentibus.

     MESPILUS with bracts to the flowers; the leaves wing-cleft, with
     the divisions sawed and downy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement and pointals.
    2. A branch with ripe fruit.

       *       *       *       *       *

Neither is this species enumerated in the works of Linnæus. The great
French botanist Tournefort, who discovered it on the mountains of
Anatolia in 1701, thus describes it: “These mountains produce a fine
sort of Azarolíer or Medlar-tree; there are some as big as oaks. Their
trunk is covered with a cleft grayish bark; the branches are bushy, and
spreading out on the sides; the leaves are in bunches two inches and a
half long, fifteen lines broad, shining, a little hairy on both sides,
commonly divided into three parts even to the rib, and these parts
indented very neatly on the edges, pretty much like the leaves of tansy;
the part at the end of the leaf is again divided into three parts. The
fruit grow two or three together at the end of the young shoots, and
resemble small apples of an inch diameter with five roundings like the
ribs of a melon, a little hairy, pale green inclining to a yellow, with
a navel raised of five leaves. We sometimes find one or two of these
leaves growing out of the flesh of the fruit, or its stalk. The fruit
though agreeable is not so pleasant as our Medlar, but I believe it
would be excellent if it were cultivated. The Armenians not only eat as
much of this as they can, but likewise fill their bags. The short period
the tree has been introduced (not above 20 years, as we are informed)
will not allow any in England, as yet, to have reached the size above
mentioned; and we much doubt whether it may be thought worthy of
cultivation here for the fruit: but the beauty of the tree and agreeable
fragrance of the blossoms sufficiently recommend it to a place in the
pleasure-garden. This and the last described species with the artificial
characters of the genus Mespilus have all the natural habits of
Cratægus, and show how ill even our most admired systems are calculated
to trace and mark these fine gradations, which, while they yet
distinguish, closely connect all nature. Too often the hue and cry of
“Heretics! Innovators!” thundered out by the schools against all who
will not implicitly follow their dogmas, drive the calm and unprejudiced
students of nature out of the field. Yet he that discovers one new truth
is surely a benefactor to society; but he that defends and inculcates
error is a tyrant in the kingdom of Nature.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXCII.

MIMOSA GRANDIFLORA.

_Great-flowered Mimosa._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER I.

_POLYGAMIA MONOECIA._ Flowers Male, Female, and Hermaphrodite, on the
same Plant.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     HERMAPHRODITI. Calyx 5-dentatus. Corolla 5-fida vel 5-petala.
     Stamina 4-200. Pistillum 1. Legumen bivalve.

     MASCULI. Calyx 5-dentatus. Corolla 5-fida sen 5-petala. Stamina
     4-200.

     HERMAPHRODITES. Cup 5-toothed. Blossom 5-cleft or 5-petalled.
     Chives 4 to 200. Shaft 1. Pod two-valved.

     MALE FLOWERS. Cup 5-toothed. Blossom 5-cleft, or of 5 petals.
     Chives 4 to 200.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MIMOSA inermis, foliis bipinnatis, multijugis, ciliatis; racemo
     composito terminali.

     Acacia grandiflora. _Willd. Sp. Pl. 4. p. 1074._

     MIMOSA unarmed, with doubly-winged leaves in many pairs and
     ciliated, and flowers in a compound terminating bunch.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The chives spread open.
    3. The pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

This species, conspicuous by its tall woody stems, large purple
blossoms, and delicate foliage, was brought to the Royal Gardens at Kew
from India by Mrs. Norman, about the year 1769. It is a plant of quick
growth, and blossoms freely, but has never produced any pods in this
country. The only figure of it we have seen is that by Reinagle in Dr.
Thornton’s Illustration of the System of Linnæus. A plate however was
finished for L’Heritier, who first described it; but his death prevented
its publication. The stamens (as in many other Mimosas) are united near
the base. The blossoms open in succession from the bottom of the bunch
upwards, and continue great part of the summer. The leaves are
deciduous. The specimen was communicated from Boyton by A. B. Lambert,
esq. in August.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXCIII.

CROTALARIA TETRAGONA.

_Four-sided Crotalaria._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Ten Stamens.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     LEGUMEN pedicellatum, turgidum. Stamina omnia connexa.

     POD on a stalk, swollen. Stamens all connected.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CROTALARIA caule tetragono, strigoso; petiolis brevibus, foliis
     oblongo-lanceolatis, acuminatis; stipulis caulem amplexantibus.

     CROTALARIA with the stem 4-sided, with flat pressed hairs: short
     footstalks: leaves oblong-lanced, and pointed: stipules embracing
     the stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The keel.
    2. The chives and pointal.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

This new and very ornamental species is remarkable for having the under
lip of the calyx often undivided, and every part of the plant up to the
blossom covered with shining close-pressed hairs: nor are they entirely
wanting on the blossom; on the lower part of the keel they are very
conspicuous, hanging downwards like a little beard. A groove with a
fringe on each side runs also along the upper side of the style towards
the summit. Two thread-shaped silky stipules rise at the base of every
leaf-stalk, and, being reflected backwards, closely embrace the stem. A
solitary stipule also rises at the base of each flower-stalk, and two
where it unites with the calyx: but these, from their singular
situation, must perhaps be considered as bracteæ.

We were favoured with the specimens in November from Lord Valentia’s
gardens at Arley, along with the Plectranthus barbata. His Lordship
received the seeds last year from Dr. Roxburgh in India, by the name of
Crotalaria tetragona. The plant appears to be shrubby. No account of the
species has before been published. Its place in the genus is near to the
Crotalaria juncea figured in our sixth volume.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXCIV.

PLECTRANTHUS BARBATUS.

_Bearded Plectranthus._


CLASS XIV. ORDER I.

_DIDYNAMIA GYMNOSPERMIA._ Four unequal Stamens. Naked Seeds.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX laciniâ summâ majore. Corolla resupinata, ringens; tubo
     sursùm gibbo vel calcarato.

     CUP with the upper division largest. Blossom lying on its back,
     gaping; tube with a spur above or swelled out.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PLECTRANTHUS racemis bracteatis, bracteis deciduis; foliis ovatis,
     crenatis, pubescentibus, rugosis, per petioles decurrentibus:
     corollæ labio superiore emarginato brevissimo; inferiore subovato,
     concavo, hirsuto.

     PLECTRANTHUS with bracts to the bunches, bracts falling off: the
     leaves oval, scolloped, downy and wrinkled, running down the
     footstalks; the upper lip of the blossom short, and slightly
     notched; the lower nearly ovate, compressed and hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. A blossom with the segments cut off to expose the chives.
    3. The seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

The stem of Plectranthus is four-sided with blunt corners, and woolly.
The leaves are fleshy, minutely dotted on both sides, and border their
footstalks down to the stem. The flower-stalks, the lower part of the
cups, and under lip of the blossom, are set with stiff clear bristles.
The tube of the blossom is without a spur, and swelled on the upper
side. Every part of the plant has a powerful fragrance. The specimens
were communicated in November by Mr. Giddings, gardener to Lord Valentia
at Arley; with a letter stating, that he raised the plants from
Abyssinian seeds sent home by his Lordship about four years ago, and
that they grow at Arley to about two feet in height, and thrive with the
common treatment of stove plants.

The first species known of this genus, Plectranthus punctatus, the
Ocymum punctatum of Linnæus, was also brought from Abyssinia by the
celebrated Bruce.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXCV.

PANAX FRUTICOSUM.

_Shrubby Panax._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER II.

_POLYGAMIA DIŒCIA._ Flowers Male, Female, and Hermaphrodite on different
Plants.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     HERMAPHRODITUS. Umbella. Calyx 5-dentatus, superus. Corolla
     5-petala. Stamina 5. Styli 2 vel 3, sæpe cohærentes. Bacca 2-vel
     3-sperma, infera.

     HERMAPHRODITE. An umbel. Cup 5-toothed, above. Blossom 5-petalled.
     Stamens 5. Shafts 2 or 3, sometimes cohering. Berry 2-or 3-seeded,
     below.

The male or female flowers we have never seen.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     PANAX foliis supradecompositis, dentato-ciliatis; caule fruticoso.
     _Willd. Sp. Pl._

     PANAX with leaves more than doubly compound, ciliated with little
     teeth; the stem shrubby.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. Empalement, chives, and pointals.
    2. The pointals.
    3. The plant in miniature.

       *       *       *       *       *

On examining the flowers of this curious and rare species of Panax, we
were a little startled to find how widely they differed from the
character of the genus; being trigynous, and the berry three-seeded.
Professor Jacquin has also observed the same variation in the flowers of
P. aculeatum (see his Icones, tab. 634); and fifty years ago Trew
observed and delineated the same number of styles in Panax trifolium,
one of the original species upon which the genus was established. Nor
had this escaped the scrutinizing eye of that profound observer of
nature Bernard Jussieu. From these authorities, therefore, in consonance
with our own observations, we have enlarged the character of the genus
to include the species. Panax fruticosum, as we learn from Rumphius’s
Herbarium Amboinense, vol. iv. p. 78 and 79, rises to between five and
six feet in height, with a stem as thick as a man’s arm, and grows
naturally in the Island of Ternate, where it is also much cultivated by
the natives for food, medicine, and œconomy; being planted to separate
the areas of their gardens and mark the boundaries of their fields. The
boiled leaves are eaten as greens, and a decoction both of the leaves
and root is used successfully in nephritic diseases, for which they also
sometimes prescribe the roots to be eaten raw. The fame of the plant as
a powerful diuretic is also great in Amboyna; where, as well as in
Ternate, it is commonly planted both for ornament and use.
Labillardiere, the French botanist, who accompanied the expedition that
sailed in quest of the unfortunate Lapeyrouse, informs us (in his
account of the voyage) that when at Amboyna he found this plant
encircling the tomb of the venerable Rumphius, its first described.

    Nature he loved; with her he spent his hours:
    The grateful goddess wreathes his tomb with flowers!

The famous _Gin-seng_, to which the Chinese attribute such extraordinary
virtues, and which, as Osbeck informs us, was commonly sold in their
shops in 1751 (see his Travels, English edit. p. 222) for from 30 to 40
times its weight in silver, and which one of their Emperors, 40 years
before that, sent 10,000 Tartars in quest of at once, is said by that
author to be a species of Panax; but the plant is yet unknown in Europe.
Panax fruticosum, we are informed, was introduced to this country about
the year 1800, and requires to be kept in the hot-house. The specimen
was communicated from Boyton by A. B. Lambert, esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXCVI.

LAURUS CINNAMOMUM.

_Cinnamon Tree._


CLASS IX. ORDER I. OR CLASS XXII. ORDER VII.

     _ENNEANDRIA MONOGYNIA_, or _DIŒCIA POLYANDRIA_. Nine Stamens. One
     Style, or Male and Female Flowers on different Plants. Stamens more
     than Seven.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus. Corolla 6-partita, glandulis tribus germen
     cingentibus. Filamenta interiora glandulifera. Drupa 1-sperma.

     CUP none. Blossom 6-parted. Glands three, surrounding the germen.
     Inner filaments bearing glands. Berry dry, one-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     LAURUS foliis trinerviis ovato-oblongis, nervis versus apicem
     evanescentibus. _Willdenow, Sp. Pl. vol. 2. p. 477._

     LEAVES three nerved, oval-oblong, nerves vanishing towards the
     point of the leaf.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A flower spread open, shown from the outer side.
    2. The same shown from the inner side.
    3. The pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the first tolerable figure of the Cinnamon tree we are indebted to
Dr. Hermann, Professor of Botany at Leyden who had also the honour of
introducing it to Europe, having brought living plants with him, on his
return from Ceylon, which vegetated in the Leyden Academy’s garden, and
in the gardens of Mynheers Benting and Beverning between two and three
years, until a severe winter destroyed them. See his Catalogue of the
Plants in the Leyden Garden (Horti Academici Lugduno-Batavi Catalogus),
page 130, plates 665 and 666. This fact is the more curious, as Linnæus,
describing the Cinnamon from dried specimens in his noble patron
Clifford’s collection, fifty years after, speaks of it as a plant
forbidden to our shores; which Europe had never seen alive, and could
hardly hope to see, or to retain even if it could be procured.

The Cinnamon was first cultivated in England by Mr. Miller in the
Apothecaries’ garden at Chelsea about the year 1768; who probably
received it from Holland, the Spice plantations at that time being
entirely in the hands of the Dutch. No figure of it has before been
published in this country, nor any account of its flowering. It grows
naturally in the Island of Ceylon, from whence the vast quantity
annually imported into Europe is supplied. The following method of
procuring and preparing the bark is abridged from Thunberg’s Travels.
Proper trees being selected, that is, those that are neither too young
nor too old, the branches of three years growth are cut off with a
pruning-knife, and their green outer bark scraped off with a crooked
knife. The remaining bark is then ripped up lengthwise and peeled off
and the smaller pieces being drawn into the larger, they are laid in the
sun to dry. After being sufficiently dried, they are tied up in bundles
of about 30 pounds weight each, and brought to the Company’s
storehouses, where inspectors appointed for that purpose examine every
bundle by tasting of it; and on its being approved of, it is tied in
bundles of about 85 pounds weight each, which are then sewed into double
woollen sacks, over which black pepper is strewed to attract any
remaining moisture, and in this state shipped for Europe. From the dust
and fragments remaining in the warehouses the extremely valuable and
rare oil of Cinnamon is distilled. An oil is also distilled from the
leaves, another from the fruit, and a fourth from the bark of the root.

Cinnamon is also found wild in the woods of Martinico, according to
Professor Jacquin; but the Ceylon Cinnamon is always considered the
best.

We are informed by our friend Mr. Anderson, that a Cinnamon tree in the
garden of the Bishop of Winchester at Farnham Castle (perhaps the finest
in England) has for many years blossomed and ripened its fruit annually,
and that great numbers of young trees have been raised from the fruit,
which have far surpassed for healthiness and hardiness the plants
commonly obtained from layers, or those imported; and which leads us to
hope that the Cinnamon trees may soon become more common and less
difficult of cultivation: and his lordship’s great success with it will,
we hope, serve to stimulate others. We have also seen a drawing in Mr.
Lambert’s collection, taken in the Bishop of Durham’s garden at
Mongewell, where it flowered, as we are informed by his lordship, in
February 1796.

The Cinnamon tree requires to be kept in the bark-bed in the stove, and
is propagated by cuttings and layers.

Our drawing was made in the month of February at J. Knight’s nursery,
King’s Road, from a fine plant upwards of three feet high.

[Illustration]




PLATE DCXVII.

TROPÆOLUM PEREGRINUM.

_The Little Bird Plant._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Stamens. One Style.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX monophyllus, calcaratus, quinquefidus. Petala duo ad quinque.
     Stigma trifidum, seu stigmata tria. Drupæ tres, siccæ, et
     monospermæ.

     CUP of one leaf with a spur five-cleft. Petals two to five. Summits
     three, or summit three-cleft. Berries three, dry, and one-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     TROPÆOLUM petalis serrato-incisis, duobus maximis, tribus minimis.
     _Jacq. Hort. Schœnb. 1. p. 51. tab. 98._

     TROPÆOLUM with the petals tooth-gashed, two much larger than the
     rest; three very small.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. Chives and pointal.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal, summit magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Tropæolum peregrinum grows naturally in Peru, and was gathered wild
by the French naturalist Feuillée near the town of Lima. The native
name, according to that author, is Malla; the Spaniards call it
Paxarito, which signifies a little bird; from the resemblance the
expanded blossoms have to little humming-birds flying. Attaching itself
by the long footstalks of the leaves to the branches, the plant often
ascends to the very summits of trees in its native soil; and Professor
Jacquin, director of the Emperor of Germany’s gardens at Schœnbrunn,
informs us (in the work above quoted) that it grew there in the open
ground to twenty-six feet in length, with a stem of a finger’s
thickness, and a great many branches, but produced no flowers until
transplanted into the green-house. A. B. Lambert, esq. who communicated
the specimen from his gardens at Boyton last November, informs us that
he cultivated it in a three-light melon-frame, which it completely
filled, branching in all directions, and producing almost innumerable
blossoms. The seeds but rarely ripen in this country, and are generally
imported from Spain or Portugal. The plant, however, may be propagated
by cuttings. Besides the five species of Tropæolum enumerated in the
edition of the Species Plantarum by Willdenow, and the new species in
our last volume (T. pennatum), three more species are described and
figured in the Flora Peruviana of Ruiz and Pavon; some of which, and
others of the many beautiful flowers of that country, the great
intercourse now carried on with South America gives us to hope that we
may soon see. One of the species in the Flora Peruviana having only two
petals, has obliged us to make a little alteration in the generic
character.

[Illustration]




PLATE DXCVIII.

BÆCKIA VIRGATA.

_Twiggy Bæckia._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-dentatus. Corolla 5-petala. Capsula 3-seu 4-locularis,
     polysperma, calyce tecta.

     CUP 5-toothed. Blossom of 5 petals. Fruit 3-or 4-celled,
     many-seeded, covered by the cup.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     BÆCKIA foliis lineari-lanceolatis pellucido-punctatis, pedunculis
     axillaribus umbelliferis.

     Leptospermum virgatum. _Forster._

     BÆCKIA with linear-lanced leaves with transparent dots; the
     flowerstalks axillary, and bearing umbels.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A petal.
    2. The chives and pointal.
    3. The same shown from the under side.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the Island of New Caledonia, celebrated by Captain Cook (above all
others) for the courteous, friendly, and honest disposition of the men,
and the inflexible virtue of the females, (see his Second Voyage, vol.
ii. p. 105 to 127.) and whence every day brought them something new in
natural history, this plant with many others was discovered by the two
Forsters, who accompanied him as naturalists, and is published in their
Genera of Plants gathered in the Islands of the South Seas as a species
of Leptospermum. Dr. Smith, however, justly observes, that neither the
number of stamens, the fruit, nor the opposite leaves, agree at all with
that genus, but most naturally with the Linnean genus Bæckia, of which
several species have lately been found in New Holland. The stamens vary
from eight to ten; the germen three-celled, with about sixteen seeds in
each; but how many of these ripen we have had no opportunity of
observing. The leaves are not absolutely without nerves, as described by
Forster; we find them faintly three-nerved in his own specimen, but they
are more conspicuously so after they become dry, particularly on the
under side. In the specimens with which we have been favoured by Mr.
Milne from Fonthill, the leaves are a little smaller than those upon the
original specimen, which may be occasioned by this plant’s being yet so
young, being raised only three years ago in the collection of the
Marquis of Bath. The time of flowering is October. The Leptospermum
virgatum of Willdenow we cannot quote, his descriptions being from two
plants of very different genera jumbled together into one species.

       *       *       *       *       *

     In the 277th Number of The Botanical Magazine the writer,
     endeavouring to destroy the authority of the figure of Yucca
     gloriosa in The Botanist’s Repository, vol. vii., and establish
     that of his own as the first, says that our figure cannot belong to
     that plant, in which “the trunk reaches only from six inches to two
     feet (Miller says in his Dictionary, from two feet and a half to
     three feet!) in height, and where the leaves are quite entire; but
     to Y. aloifolia, whose trunk reaches from 6 to 10 feet in height,
     and the leaves have a finely crenulate edging.” Our drawing was
     taken at Lord Boston’s from a plant only ten feet high, the stem
     little more than three, and the leaves not in the least crenated!
     The panicle in our figure is also said to be much closer than in
     that, with its branches likewise more lax and drooping. With all
     these contradictory qualities, however, it very much resembles
     Barreliere’s figure of the same, which the writer himself has
     quoted, and in which the curvature of the buds, which he holds to
     be so extraordinary, is also conspicuous. No less curious is his
     objection to the tinge of purple on the flowers. Could it be
     possible that he had not seen either the plant that he way
     describing or the drawing of it? (See the figure in The Botanical
     Magazine.) But we leave the Yuccas to speak for themselves. The
     filamentosa he has also complimented with five feet of a stem
     (Botanical Magazine, No. 900), and quoted Micham’s authority for
     it, although that author expressly says that it is stemless!

[Illustration]




PLATE DXCIX.

CHAMÆROPS HUMILIS.

_Dwarf Fan-Palm._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER II.

_POLYGAMIA DIŒCIA._ Stamens and Pointals on different Plants, with some
perfect Flowers occasionally.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     MASC. Calyx 3-partitus. Corolla 3-petala. Stamina 6.

     HERMAPH. Calyx, corolla et stamina ut in masculis. Styli 3. Drupæ
     3, monospermæ.

     MALES. Cup 3-parted. Blossom 3-petalled. Stamens 6.

     HERMAPHRODITES. Cup, blossom and stamens as in the males. Styles 3.
     Berries 3, dry, one-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CHAMÆROPS frondibus palmatis, stipitibus spinosis, spathâ simplici.
     _Willd. Sp. Pl. 4. p. 1154._

     CHAMÆROPS with palmate boughs, prickly footstalks, and simple
     sheaths.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. Empalement and blossom.
    2. The same shown from the outer side.
    3. The chives.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Dwarf Fan-Palm is the only species indigenous to Europe, where it
grows naturally in Italy on the coast of Etruria, in the Island of
Sicily, and in Spain in the province of Valencia, where we are informed
by Cavanilles, in his Icones Plantarum, (vol. ii. p. 12.) it is most
commonly found stemless, and in that tract called Desierto de las
Palmas, or the Desert of Palms, with stems rarely exceeding two feet in
height. In the district of Xabea, however, on the coast of the
Mediterranean, he found many with stems fourteen feet high, and one as
high as thirty feet. The same author informs us that the lower part of
the stem, which enters the earth, and the heads of young blossoms before
they burst from the sheath, are eaten by the Spaniards, to whom also the
leaves are of the greatest utility, furnishing them with mats, ropes,
brooms, and baskets, in the manufacture of which boys are principally
employed, and women during the evenings in winter. Many of our fair
countrywomen, we fear, spend their evenings less usefully. Professor
Pontedera, in his Anthologia, published at Padua in 1720, has given
three good plates of the Chamærops and its fructification, taken from a
plant, the stem of which was twelve feet high, growing in the public
garden there. From this author we learn that the young shoots or suckers
from the bottom of the plant (called there cefaglioni) are eaten by the
Italians. The Chamærops also grows spontaneously upon uncultivated hills
on the coast of Barbary, where the lower part of the young stems and the
roots are also eaten by the Moors; and the leaves, after being macerated
in water, made into mats, ropes, baskets, &c., as in Spain. (See
Desfontaines’ Flora Atlantica, vol. iii. p. 473.) Willdenow takes notice
of two varieties of the Chamærops, one of which is nearly stemless, and
the other twenty feet in height; and the former of which is probably
that cultivated in England, as we have never met with any of a large
size, although the plant has been in our gardens since the year 1731;
while that in the Jardin des Plantes at Paris, (nearly twenty feet
high,) mentioned by Chevalier Lamarck in the Encyclopédie Méthodique,
seems to be the second variety. Our drawing was taken early in March, in
Malcolm’s Nursery at Kensington, from a male plant about two feet in
height with three fine bunches of male blossoms.

[Illustration]




PLATE DC.

GÆRTNERA RACEMOSA.

_Racemed Gærtnera._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONO-DI-TRIGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One to Three Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-partitus. Petala 5 lacero-ciliata, inæqualia. Stamina
     decem, unicum reliquis longius. Stylus incurvus. Stigma simplex.
     Germen triloculare, 3-spermum. Samara inæqualiter quadrialata,
     monosperma.

     CUP five-parted. Petals five, cut-fringed, unequal. Stamens ten,
     one longer than the rest. Style incurved. Summit simple. Seed-bud
     of three cells with three seeds. Fruit with four unequal wings,
     one-seeded.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The same shown from the outer side.
    3. The chives and pointals.
    4. The seed-bud and pointals.
    5. The capsule.

       *       *       *       *       *

This curious and interesting plant, originally considered as a species
of Banisteria by Linnæus, was very properly separated and named in
honour of the celebrated Gærtner by Schreber in his Genera Plantarum;
and Cavanilles nearly about the same time published it in his Ninth
Dissertation, under the name of Molina, in honour of the author of the
Natural History of Chili. Gærtnera however has the right of priority,
and has been continued by Dr. Roxburgh in his Plants of the Coast of
Coromandel, where he has given a figure and description of the plant,
(vol. i. p. 19. tab. 18.) and by Willdenow in his edition of the Species
Plantarum.

On examining the fructification, we have found the plant more closely
allied to Banisteria than has hitherto been suspected, the styles being
commonly two with a rudiment of a third, and the germen three-locular
with a young seed in each cell; but the inequality of the petals and
stamens, the solitary gland on the calyx, and the abortion of the
lateral seeds, furnish abundant distinctions.

From the Coromandel plants above quoted we learn that it is a large
climbing shrub, growing naturally on the Circar mountains in India, and
is commonly cultivated all over that coast on account of the beauty and
fragrance of its flowers, which open there during the rainy season.
According to Linnæus it is also a native of the Island of Ceylon. No
other species of the genus has yet been described. The plant is
certainly a great acquisition to our collections, and was introduced
from India by the late Lady Amelia Hume about the year 1805. Our
specimen was communicated from the collection at Wormley Bury the end of
last March.

[Illustration]




PLATE DCI.

CROTALARIA PULCHRA.

_Fair Crotalaria._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Ten Stamens.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     LEGUMEN pedicellatum, turgidum. Filamenta connata cum figurâ
     dorsali.

     POD on a footstalk, swollen. Filaments united into a tube, which is
     cleft at the back.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CROTALARIA caule hirsuto; foliis simplicibus, elliptico-obovatis,
     integerrimis, sericeis, nitentibus; leguminibus calyce tectis
     bracteisque strigoso-sericeis.

     CROTALARIA with a hairy stem; simple, elliptical, inversely oval,
     entire, silky, shining leaves: the pods, the calyx which covers
     them, and the bracts, all shining with silky hairs.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The standard.
    3. One of the wings.
    4. The keel.
    5. Chives and pointal.
    6. The seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

The choice collection of the late Lady Amelia Hume, at Wormley-bury,
Herts, which before furnished us with the magnificent and unrivalled
Pæonia papaveracea, has again produced us this new species of
Crotalaria, seeds of which were received by her ladyship, about the year
1807, from the East Indies, under the name of C. pulcherrima, which we
have abridged to pulchra, as we can hardly presume to say which species
is most beautiful before we have seen the whole genus, which, from the
large catalogue of Indian species by Dr. Roxburgh in his unpublished
Indian Flora, a copy of which we have seen in the collection of A. B.
Lambert, esq. (besides the forty-four species already published by
Willdenow) we think is not soon likely to happen.

Crotalaria pulchra is as yet in very few collections in this country,
nor have we heard of its blossoming in any other collection. The foreign
specimens which we have seen with the Catalogue above mentioned in the
same collection have very large spreading bunches of flowers, and there
can be no doubt but the plants in this country, when a little stronger,
will blossom with equal profusion. The plant is a native of the Mysore
country in the East Indies. We received the specimen in the middle of
March last.

[Illustration]




PLATE DCII.

GLYCINE COMPTONIANA.

_Comptonian Glycine._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Two Brotherhoods. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX bilabiatus. Corollæ carina apice vexillum reflectens.

     CUP two-lipped. Keel of the blossom turning back the standard at
     the end.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     GLYCINE volubilis, foliis ternatis elongato-ovatis utrinque
     glabris, petiolis partialibus supra pubescentibus, racemis
     axillaribus multi-floris.

     GLYCINE twining; the leaves by threes of a long egg-shape, smooth
     on both sides; the partial footstalks hairy above; the bunches
     lateral and many-flowered.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. The standard.
    3. One of the wings.
    4. The keel.
    5. Chives and pointal.
    6. The seed-bud and pointal.

       *       *       *       *       *

This elegant species is a native of New Holland, and belongs to that
division of the genus with many-seeded pods without any partitions. We
find in the germen the rudiments of eight kidneyshaped seeds, but the
ripe fruit we have not seen. Having found no antecedent description or
figure of the plant, we have named it in honour of Lady Northampton, in
whose collection at Castle Ashby it flowered last April. But by whom it
was introduced we are uncertain.

[Illustration]




PLATE DCIII.

COMMERSONIA DASYPHYLLA.

_Hairy-leaved Commersonia._


CLASS V. ORDER V.

_PENTANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Five Chives. Five Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX monophyllus 5-partitus. Petala 5 linearia basi sublobata,
     apice inflexa. Nectarium 5-partitum. Filamenta ad basin petalorum,
     brevissima. Germen subglobosum. Styli erecti. Stigmata capitata.
     Capsula dura, setosa, 5-locularis, 5-valvis, loculis 2-4-spermis.

     EMPALEMENT of one leaf 5-parted. Petals 5, linear, commonly lobed
     at the base, turned in at the point. Nectary 5-parted. Threads at
     the base of the petals, very short. Seed-bud nearly round. Styles
     erect with their summits headed. Capsule hard, bristly, with 5
     cells and 5 valves, the cells from 2-to 4-seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     COMMERSONIA foliis elongato-cordatis inæqualiter serratis supra
     subtusque hirsutis.

     COMMERSONIA with long heart-shaped unequally toothed leaves hairy
     on both sides.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. Empalement, chives and pointals, magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commersonia dasyphylla is a low branching shrub, a native of New Holland
or Van Diemen’s Land, and is remarkable for a powerful odour of
cucumbers which it emits when in blossom, and even retains for some time
after it is dried. Being a plant which blossoms freely in early spring,
and of very easy culture, it well deserves a place in the green-house or
conservatory. Only one species of Commersonia has before flowered in
England, the C. echinata of our last volume (Plate 519), but which has
since been discovered to be a different species from the original C.
echinata of Forster; which error we take the present opportunity of
correcting, and beg of our readers to erase the name echinata in our
519th plate and description, and substitute platyphylla, with the
following specific description:

     COMMERSONIA platyphylla, foliis elongato-cordatis dentatis, supra
     stellato-hispidulis, subtus hirsutis, mollibus.

     BROAD-LEAVED Commersonia with toothed leaves of a long heart-shape,
     a little rough with star-like bristles on the upper side; hairy and
     soft below.

Another nondescript Commersonia from Van Diemen’s Land is now in our
gardens, but has not yet blossomed; and we have seen dried specimens of
a fifth species brought from New Holland by the late Governor King, in
the collection of A. B. Lambert, esq.

We were favoured with the specimen of C. dasyphylla by Mr. Milne, from
Fonthill, last April. The plant is at present in very few collections,
and has not, we believe, yet blossomed anywhere else in England.

[Illustration]




PLATE DCIV.

MALPIGHIA POLYSTACHIA.

_Branching Malpighia._


CLASS X. ORDER I. TO III.

_DECANDRIA MONO-DI-TRIGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One to Three Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-phyllus basi extus poris binis melliferis. Petala 5
     subrotunda, unguiculata. Filamenta basi cohærentia. Drupa
     1-locularis tripyrena, nucibus monospermis.

     CUP 5-leaved with two honey-bearing pores on the outside at the
     base. Petals five, nearly round with claws. Threads cohering at the
     base. Berry fleshy of one cell with three large bony seeds.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     MALPIGHIA foliis lanceolato-ovatis integerrimis glabris nitidis,
     subtus prope basin biglandulosis; racemis axillaribus et
     terminalibus; pedicellis uniglandulosis; floribus monogynis;
     stigmate capitato.

     MALPIGHIA with lance-ovate, entire smooth shining leaves, with two
     glands on their underside near the base; bunches both from the
     sides and tops of the branches; flowerstalks with one gland; style
     one; stigma headed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    3. The chives spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointals.

       *       *       *       *       *

This splendid Malpighia is one of that fine collection of West Indian
and American plants (we have before mentioned) made by Lord Seaforth
when Governor of Barbadoes, and brought home with him on his return to
England. From the catalogue of the collection we learn that the plant is
a native of Trinidad, and his Lordship informs us that it was sent to
him from that island by Mr. Thompson.

The species ought to be arranged between the M. nitida of Linnæus and M.
glandulosa of Cavanilles, from both of which the glands on the leaf and
solitary gland on the pedicel easily distinguish it. In the last
circumstance, however, it agrees with the M. glandulosa of Jacquin, (see
his Icones, tab. 469.) but is totally different both in the flowers and
foliage. A. B. Lambert, esq., from whose stove at Boyton we were
favoured with the specimen, informs us that it is a shrub of very free
growth, throwing out long slender twigs on all sides, and requiring the
frequent use of the knife to keep it in due bounds. The bunches of
flowers first appeared in November, but did not open until the beginning
of April. The leaf-stalks are thinly covered with silky bristles, some
of which also appear towards the base of the younger leaves.

[Illustration]




PLATE DCV.

PELIOSANTHES TETA.

_Bengal Peliosanthes, or Teta._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX nullus. Corolla 6-partita, subrotata, laciniis lato-ovatis
     obtusis. Nectarium corollâ triplò breviore incumbente, ore
     angustato integro. Stamina sub ore nectarii affixa. Filamenta
     subnulla. Stylus crassus, brevis, obtusè trigonus, trisulcatus.
     Stigma sulculus tripartitus in apice styli. Germen inferum,
     3-loculare loculis dispermis. Semina (immatura) obovata, erecta,
     fundo loculamenti affixa. Fructus bacca? subovata, carnosa.

     CUP none. Blossom 6-parted, nearly wheel-shaped, the divisions
     broadly egg-shaped, blunt. Nectary three times shorter than the
     blossom, leaning inwards, the mouth narrowed and entire. Stamens
     affixed under the lip of the nectary. Filaments scarcely any.
     Pointal fleshy, short, bluntly three-sided, with three furrows.
     Stigma a little three-branched channel on the top of the pointal.
     Germ below, of three cells which are two-seeded. Seeds (while
     young) inversely egg-shaped, erect, and affixed to the bottom of
     the cells. Fruit a berry? nearly oval, fleshy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. A segment of the flower magnified.
    2. Seed-bud and pointal magnified, with the seeds exposed.
    3. Seed-bud cut transversely, magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

This very curious plant, so distinct from every genus hitherto
described, was introduced from the East Indies, at the same time with
the Gærtnera figured in our last number, by the late Lady Amelia Hume.
The roots are fibrous and perennial, as are also the leaves, which rise
from the root upon footstalks embracing one another at the base, and are
of a long lance-shape with strong longitudinal nerves, which are
transversely interwoven with little branching veins. The flower-stalks
are round, rising to from one to two feet in height, with membranaceous
bracts scattered at regular distances, and were four in number in the
specimen which we have figured. The blossoms grow in a kind of raceme
formed of little bunches or tufts of two to four flowers each: the
footstalks are of unequal lengths with a joint near the top, and are
attended by incurved bracts at the base, the lowermost bract at each
tuft being always the largest. The germ is nearly top-shaped, but a
little hexangular upwards. Three of the divisions of the blossom are
just perceptibly broader than the other three, and both the corolla and
nectary are closely pierced with transparent dots hardly visible to the
naked eye, but very distinct when magnified.

We have seen a very good coloured drawing of the plant taken in India in
the collection of J. Fleming, esq. which represents the fruit (which has
not yet ripened in England) as a bluntly oval, fleshy berry, with the
seeds in pairs as in the germ. Both this drawing and the plant received
from India by Lady Amelia Hume were marked _Teta viridiflora_; Teta
being perhaps (if we may hazard a conjecture) the name applied to the
plant by the native Indians. However this may be, as it appears to be
known in India by that name, we have retained it for the specific
designation; applying to the genus, in conformity to the Linnæan canons,
(from πελιος, lividus, and ανθς, flos,) the name of Peliosanthes. Our
drawing represents the original plant imported from India, with which we
were favoured by Sir Abraham Hume, bart. last April, through the
kindness of A. B. Lambert, esq. who has also informed us, from Dr.
Roxburgh’s MSS. in his possession, that the plant is found growing
naturally about Chittagong in the East Indies. We have just seen two
other species of the genus in the curious collection of T. Evans, esq.
at Stepney, imported by him last Autumn from Prince of Wales’s Island,
of which they are natives. One of them has the leaves nearly of a blue
colour; and Mr. Evans’s collector informs us, that he found five or six
species growing naturally in the island above mentioned, although he had
not the good fortune to bring them alive to England.

Linnæus was of opinion, that there were not above ten thousand plants in
the world; but above five-and-twenty thousand have already been
described, and ten thousand probably yet remain to be added to the
number!

[Illustration]




PLATE DCVI.

ZIERIA SMITHII.

_Smithian Zieria._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX quadripartitus. Petala quatuor. Stamina glabra, glandulis
     insidentia. Stylus simplex. Stigma subquadrilobum. Capsulæ quatuor
     coalitæ. Semina arillata.

     CUP four-parted. Petals four. Chives smooth, sitting on glands.
     Pointal simple. Summit generally four-lobed. Fruit of four cohering
     capsules. Seeds covered with an arillus.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. Empalement magnified.
    2. Chives and pointal.
    3. A chive magnified.
    4. The same shown from the outer side.
    5. Empalement, seed-bud, and pointal magnified.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Zieria Smithii is a dwarf warty shrub with opposite branches, and
leaves which are composed of three lanceolate leaflets, rough with
transparent dots, which probably secrete an oil, as the bruised leaves
are very fragrant. A few small scattered hairs are just visible on their
upper surface. The panicles of flowers rise from the axils of the
leaves, which they often excel in length, and branch in the same
opposite manner as the stem, with linear bracts at the divisions. The
cups are very short, finely haired and dotted as the leaves. The petals
are broad-lanced, pointed, and slightly tinged with purple on the
outside. The genus was established by Dr. Smith in the fourth volume of
the Linnean Society’s Transactions, and named in memory of his friend
Mr. Zier, whom he calls “an indefatigable botanist, but whose labours
generally gained celebrity under another name than his own.” Were
celebrity only to be gained by real merit, many of the high-sounding
names that now swell the trump of fame would, we fear, have far less
pretensions than Zier. The Zieria Smithii was communicated last April by
A. B. Lambert, esq. from his collection, and we have seen dried
specimens of four other species preserved in his Herbarium, all (like
the present) natives of New Holland, and agreeing in their shrubby
nature, opposite branches, ternate leaves, and axillary bunches of
flowers. None of the species have before been published.

[Illustration]




PLATE DCVII.

CLERODENDRUM TOMENTOSUM.

_Downy Clerodendrum._


CLASS XII. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX campanulatus, quinquefidus. Corolla tubo elongato, limbo
     quinquepartito, æquali. Stamina exserta. Germen quadriloculare,
     loculis monospermis. Drupa tetrapyrena.

     CUP bell-shaped, five-cleft. Tube of the blossom elongated, with
     the limb equally five-parted. Stamens longer than the tube.
     Seed-bud four-celled, the cells one-seeded. Fruit a dry berry
     including four nuts.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CLERODENDRUM tomentosum, foliis ellipticis acutis integris
     calycibusque tomentosis; corymbis congestis.--_Brown. Prodromus
     Floræ Novæ Hollandiæ et Insulæ Van Diemen, vol. 1. p. 510._

     DOWNY Clerodendrum with elliptic acute entire leaves downy as well
     as the cups; corymbs crowded.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. Empalement.
    2. A blossom spread open.
    3. Seed-bud and pointal.
    4. A ripe fruit.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Clerodendrum tomentosum is found naturally growing about Port
Jackson and some other parts of the eastern and northern coasts of New
Holland, according to Mr. Brown’s Prodromus of the Flora of that
country, just published. This long expected and interesting work
contains descriptions of about two thousand plants, (of which, scarcely
a third part have before been published) in the first volume, and the
second is now in the press.

Although the Clerodendrum tomentosum has been in England above ten
years, no figure of it has before been given in this country. All the
plants which we have seen of it form erect shrubs from four to six feet
in height. The time of blossoming is March and April. We have been
favoured with specimens in blossom from the botanic garden of the
Company of Apothecaries at Chelsea, and with the ripe fruit from Sir
Abraham Hume’s collection at Wormley-bury, but are uncertain who first
introduced it.

[Illustration]




PLATE DCVIII.

CITRUS NOBILIS.

_Mandarin Orange._


CLASS XVIII. ORDER III.

_POLYADELPHIA ICOSANDRIA._ Many Sets of Chives. Threads from the Calyx
or Receptacle.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

     CALYX 5-dendatus. Corolla 5-petala. Stamina 20 in cylindrum passim
     connata. Stylus 1. Bacca 9-12-locularis, pulpâ vesiculari.

     CUP five-toothed. Petals five. Stamens about twenty, generally
     united at the base. Shaft 1. Fruit 9-to 12-celled, the pulp
     variously divided.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

     CITRUS petiolis sublinearibus, fructu latescente depresso.

     CITRUS with nearly linear leafstalks; the fruit broad depressed.

     CITRUS nobilis, inermis, ramis adscendentibus: petiolis strictis,
     fructu tuberculoso subcompresso.--_Lour. Flor. Cochinchin. 2. p.
     569?_


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

    1. The empalement.
    2. Chives and pointal.
    3. The chives spread open, a tip magnified.
    4. Seed-bud and pointal.
    5. A horizontal section of the fruit.

       *       *       *       *       *

The drawing of this remarkable Orange, which has so long been a
desideratum in this country, was taken at Wormley-bury in the beginning
of last May. The plant is a native of China, and Mr. Barrow informs us,
that he found the fruit very common when on his travels in that country,
and in much higher estimation than the common Orange by the Chinese, who
call it Mandarin Orange (answering nearly to the English epithet of
noble) by way of pre-eminence. The same gentleman also informs us, that
he found some fine trees of it in the gardens at the Cape of Good Hope;
it is therefore the more singular that it has been so long in reaching
this country. From Loureiro’s description of his Citrus nobilis, there
can be little doubt of its being intended for the Mandarin Orange;
which, he informs us, grows to a moderately sized tree, and particularly
notices the superior excellence and the depression of the fruit, whose
common size is about five inches across. The plant at Sir Abraham Hume’s
is as yet only about five feet in height, and was imported from Canton
in 1805.

It is easily distinguished from the common Orange, both by its curious
form and internal structure, the pulp adhering so loosely to the rind as
to be separable from it by the slightest effort, and leaving in many
places a considerable opening between them.

[Illustration]




INDEX

TO THE PLANTS CONTAINED IN VOL. IX.


Plate
553 Lobelia assurgens             Assurgent Lobelia        H. H.  Shrub.  July.
554 Volkameria angustifolia       Narrow-leaved Volkameria H. H.  Shrub.  August.
555 Zingiber Cliffordiæ           Cliffordian Zingiber     H. H.  Shrub.  September.
556 Pancratium amœnum             Broad-leaved Pancratium  H. H.  Bulb.   March.
557 Periploca Africana            African Periploca        G. H.  Shrub.  Sum. & autumn.
558 Ferula Persica                Persian Ferula           Har.   Shrub.  October.
559 Camellia Japonica,
      _semi-duplex_               Semi-double-flowered
                                   Camellia                G. H.  Shrub.  February.
560 Verea acutiflora              Pointed-flowered Verea   H. H.  Shrub.  December.
561 Xeranthemum fragrans          Fragrant Xeranthemum     G. H.  Shrub.  August.
562 Cynanchum bicolor             Two-coloured Cynanchum   H. H.  Shrub.  August.
563 Mimosa elegans                Elegant Mimosa           H. H.  Shrub.  March.
564 Ixia curta                    Short Ixia               G. H.  Bulb.   April.
565 Ruta linifolia                Flax-leaved Ruta         Har.   Herb.   Sep. & October.
566 Callicoma serratifolia        Sawed-leaved Callicoma   G. H.  Shrub.  March.
567 Ceratonia siliqua             Pod-bearing Ceratonia    G. H.  Shrub.  February.
568 Liparia sphærica              Round-headed Liparia     G. H.  Shrub.  August.
569 Ceanothus laniger             Woolly Ceanothus         G. H.  Shrub.  April.
570 Justicia nitida               Shining-leaved Justicia  H. H.  Shrub.  August.
571 Sida patens                   Spreading Sida           H. H.  Ann.    September.
572 Protea saligna                Willow-leaved Protea     G. H.  Shrub.  August.
573 Magnolia auriculata           Ear-leaved Magnolia      Har.   Shrub.  May.
574 Pultenæa obcordata            Inversely Heart-leaved
                                    Pultenæa               G. H.  Shrub.  March.
575 Martynia diandra              Diandrous Martynia       H. H.  Ann.    November.
576 Lithospermum Tinctorium       Dyers’ Bugloss           Har.   Herb.   May.
577 Protea virgata                Twiggy Protea            G. H.  Shrub.  August.
578 Ægiphila diffusa              Spreading Ægiphila       H. H.  Shrub.  August.
579 Cratægus Azarolus             The Azarole              Har.   Tree.   May.
580 Mesembyanthemum acinaciforme  Scimitar-leaved
                                    Mesembryanthemum       G. H.  Shrub.  August.
581 Salix violacea                Violet-coloured Willow   Har.   Tree.   April.
582 Protea mellifera albiflora    White-flowered
                                   Honey-bearing Protea    G. H.  Shrub.  August.
583 Lonicera Japonica             Japanese Woodbine        G. H.  Shrub.  July.
584 Phlomis Samia                 Samian Phlomis           Har.   Herb.   July.
585 Sophora Japonica              Japanese Sophora         Har.   Tree.   Autumn.
586 Lilium speciosum              Showy Lily               Har.   Bulb.   All Summer.
587 Corchorus Japonicus,
     _flore pleno_
                                  Japanese Corchorus with
                                   double Flowers           G. H.  Shrub.  Spring & summer.
588 Sida hastata                  Halberd-leaved Sida       H. H.  Ann.    September.
589 Gladiolus angustus, _minor_   Small Narrow-leaved
                                        Cornflag                G. H.  Herb.   August.
590 Mespilus odoratissima         Sweet-scented Mespilus    Har.   Tree.   September.
591 Mespilus tanacetifolia        Tansy-leaved Medlar       Har.   Tree.   September.
592 Mimosa grandiflora            Great-flowered Mimosa     H. H.  Shrub.  July & August.
593 Crotalaria tetragona          Four-sided Crotalaria     G. H.  Shrub.  November.
594 Plectranthus barbatus         Bearded Plectranthus      H. H.  Ann.    November.
595 Panax fruticosum              Shrubby Panax             H. H.  Shrub.  January.
596 Laurus Cinnamomum             Cinnamon Tree             H. H.  Tree.   February.
597 Tropæolum peregrinum          The Little Bird Plant     H. H.  Ann.    November.
598 Bæckia virgata                Twiggy Bæckia             G. H.  Shrub.  October.
599 Chamærops humilis             Dwarf Fan Palm            H. H.  Shrub.  March.
600 Gærtnera racemosa             Racemed Gærtnera          H. H.  Shrub.  March.
601 Crotalaria pulchra            Fair Crotalaria           G. H.  Shrub.  March.
602 Glycine Comptoniana           Comptonian Glycine        G. H.  Shrub.  April.
603 Commersonia dasyphylla        Hairy-leaved Commersonia  H. H.  Shrub.  April.
604 Malpighia polystachia         Branching Malpighia       H. H.  Shrub.  April.
605 Peliosanthes Teta             Bengal Peliosanthes or
                                         Teta                   H. H.  Shrub.  May.
606 Zieria Smithii                Smithian Zieria           G. H.  Shrub.  May.
607 Clerodendrum tomentosum       Downy Clerodendrum        G. H.  Shrub.  March & April.
608 Citrus nobilis                Mandarin Orange           H. H.  Shrub.  May.


ERRATA.

Plate 586 for Lilium speciosum, read Lilium tigrinum, a perfectly new
species, distinct from the references given in the description.

587 In reference to the plate, instead of pointals, read empalement and pointals.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74978 ***
